http://www.ivsbdc.ca.gov/imperial_county.htm

   Imperial County



Home
Counseling
Objectives
Seminars/Training
Imperial County
Resource Center
Center Personel
Contact Us
links


   [23.gif]



Imperial County is located in the southeast corner of California.  The county
extends over 4,597 square miles, bordering on Mexico to the south, Riverside
County to the north, San Diego County to the west and Arizona on the east.
Presently, Imperial County is the 9^th largest county in California.
Approximately half of the county lands are undeveloped and under federal
ownership and jurisdiction.  Currently, one-fifth of the nearly 3 million
acres of the county is irrigated for agricultural purposes, most notably the
central area known as Imperial Valley.  The developed area, where the
county’s incorporated cities, unincorporated communities and supporting
facilities are situated comprises less than one percent of the land.
Furthermore, approximately seven percent of the land area in the county is
comprised of the Salton Sea.  The Imperial Valley is accessible via
Interstate Highway 8 which runs from east to west, and via State Highways 86
and 111 which run north from Indio to south to the Mexican border.



In 1998 the California Department of Finance and Statistical Abstracts
estimated that 142,000 people reside in Imperial County.  Furthermore,
approximately 60% of Imperial County residents are of Hispanic origin and as
you move closer to the U.S./Mexico border (i.e. Calexico, Heber) the number
of residents of Hispanic origin rises to more than 95%.   According to the
1990 Census, Imperial County is ranked as the poorest county in California.
Approximately 35% of the households in Imperial County have incomes of less
than $15,000 per year and 25% of the population lives below the national
poverty threshold.  In 1998 the unemployment rate for Imperial County was
23.8% which ranks it as the highest within the State of California.



The agricultural industry has remained the dominant industry in Imperial
County.  In 1998 there were approximately 50,000 jobs in Imperial County and
approximately 31% of those jobs were in the agricultural industry.
Employment in the agricultural industry is seasonal in nature as the county
experiences high employment during the winter months and lower employment
during the hot summer months.  Imperial County is a leading producer of row
crops and livestock and in recent years the trend is towards utilizing labor
contractors to provide workers to meet seasonal demand.

Imperial County shares a border with Mexico and has greatly benefited from
the international trade with this region.  Mexicali lies just across the
border from Calexico and is the capital of the State of Baja California.
Furthermore, whereas the population estimates for Imperial County are
142,000, the population estimates for Mexicali are one million.  Mexicali has
four universities, eleven industrial parks and five technical schools.
Mexicali also has an international airport located eleven miles east of the
city offering domestic, international and regional flights.    In 1998,
Imperial County and Mexicali signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) which
calls for a joint effort in economic development and in promoting the region
to outside interests.  In 1996 Imperial County opened a new port of entry
into Mexico which has served to intensify the level of international and
regional trade between the two areas.  Moreover, according to the results of
a survey conducted at the two ports of entry in Calexico there were 2.9
million legal admissions from Mexico into the United States during the month
of March in 1998.  The survey went on to conclude that the majority of the
admissions were for shopping purposes and that as a result $70 million of
monthly revenues were injected into Imperial County’s economy from Mexicali




    Small Business Development Center


    1240 State Street,  El Centro, CA   95202
    (760) 312-9800   fax(760) 312-9800


    E-mail:  ivsbdc@quix.net


                                              Designed & Developed By:


                                              [0006021.gif]
