http://www.fossil.energy.gov/techline/tl_ats_ge1.shtml

   DOE Fossil Energy Web Site

   -
    Ribbon - Support for U.S. Response to Terrorism
                                                   -
                                                    SUPPORT
                                                    FOR FREEDOM'S
                                                    RESPONSE

   SEARCH THIS SITE
   -

   - Fossil Energy Web Site - - -
   - -   Electric Power R&D | Oil/Gas R&D | Fuels R&D | Oil Reserves |
   Electricity Regulation | Gas Regulation
   -
   - - - - -


                  [spacer.gif]
   -              HOME PAGE
   [arrow_on.gif] NEWS
   -              BUSINESS
   -              BUDGET
   -              R&D PROJECTS
   -              PUBLICATIONS
   -              EVENTS/REMARKS
   -              INTERNATIONAL
   -              FOR STUDENTS

   Register for E-Mail Alerts

   - ABOUT US
   - HOW TO
     CONTACT US
   - PRIVACY &
     SECURITY
   - INDEX

   -
    News and Progress Reports from the Office of Fossil Energy
                                                              - -
   -
   -

                           Printer-Friendly Version   Printer-Friendly Version
       February 18, 2000
       -

                     World's Most Advanced Gas Turbine Now Ready
                            To Cross Commercial Threshold

                        Secretary Richardson Cites Success of
                           Government-Industry Partnership

       Greenville, SC - For natural gas turbines - the technology likely to
       dominate the growing market for new electric power generation - the
       future was unveiled today in Greenville, South Carolina.

    GE's H-Series Gas Turbine
      The 330-ton Model MS7001H advanced gas turbine is the size of a
      locomotive.

       Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson and U.S. Senator Ernest Hollings
       joined General Electric today in announcing that the company's newest H
       System혲 gas turbine, the most advanced combustion turbine in the world,
       is ready to cross the commercial threshold.

       "Today, we are seeing the most advanced combustion turbine anywhere,
       incorporating breakthroughs that were barely imagined a decade ago,"
       said Secretary Richardson. "This milestone will not only help maintain
       a cleaner environment, it will help fuel our growing economy, and it
       will keep electric bills low in homes and businesses across our
       country."

       The new machine, the size of a large locomotive, is the product of a
       jointly funded development effort between GE Power Systems and the U.S.
       Department of Energy. Developed at GE's Greenville manufacturing
       facility, the turbine passed a critical verification test earlier this
       month and is being readied for shipment to a power plant being built
       near Scriba, New York, by Sithe Energies, one of the world's largest
       independent power producers.

       Natural gas turbines are expected to make up more than 80 percent of
       the power generating capacity to be added in the United States over the
       next 10 to 15 years. Of the more than 200 new power plant projects
       announced recently in the United States, 96 percent plan to use natural
       gas and most will employ gas turbines. Globally, the turbine market
       also promises to be huge with worldwide power generation perhaps
       approaching $100 billion over the next decade.

       "Gas turbines will be the clear choice for the next wave of power plant
       construction. The new technology developed and manufactured here in
       Greenville will be at the crest of that wave," said Senator Hollings.
       "By keeping the 'Made-in-America' stamp on the world's most
       sophisticated power turbine, we will keep jobs in America and in South
       Carolina."

       Richardson's and Hollings' remarks came at a ceremony in which GE
       introduced the gas turbine, officially designated the MS7001H, to
       nearly 100 prospective customers and other invited guests.

       The turbine is the culminating achievement of a Department of Energy
       research and development effort that began in the early 1990s when GE
       was one of six developers selected to begin designing concepts for a
       breakthrough turbine system. The development effort received a major
       boost in 1993 when it was included in President Clinton's Economic
       Stimulus Program.

       When the program concludes, the Energy Department will have invested
       almost $100 million in the development effort with GE contributing more
       than $500 million, including $200 million in the federal program.

       Designed to work in a "combined cycle" power plant - a plant that
       combines gas turbines and steam turbines to produce electricity - the H
       System혲 will be the most efficient power generation system in the
       world. It will be the first gas turbine to top the 60 percent
       efficiency threshold -- the "four minute mile" of turbine technology.
       When the Energy Department began its advanced turbine development
       program in the early 1990s, the best turbines available had
       efficiencies of about 50 percent.

       Because fuel represents the largest single cost of running a power
       plant, an increase of 10 percentage points in efficiency can reduce
       operating costs by as much as $200 million over the life of a typical
       gas-fired 400-500 megawatt combined cycle plant.

       The efficiency gains have been achieved because the turbine fires
       natural gas nearly 300 degrees hotter than conventional turbines,
       reaching temperatures of 2600 degrees F. Advanced cooling techniques
       and new alloys were developed to handle the hotter temperatures. The
       turbine also employs the world's largest single crystal airfoils,
       making the turbine blades much more resistant to high temperature
       cracking than the multi-directional crystal design currently used.

       The turbine also operates cleaner than any of today's utility gas
       turbines. Its nitrogen oxide emission levels of 9 parts-per-million
       will be half the average of the turbines now in use, making the new
       technology suitable for siting in the nation's most environmentally
       constrained areas.

       In addition, the H System혲 turbine will produce the fewest tons of
       carbon dioxide per kilowatt of electricity of any gas turbine available
       today. When deployed commercially, it can make a significant
       contribution toward reducing greenhouse gases that can cause global
       warming.

       The system introduction today will produce electricity at 60-hertz,
       making it suitable for the U.S. power grid. GE has also developed a
       companion H System혲 turbine -- the 50-hertz 9H series -- for the
       overseas market. The 50-hertz version is scheduled to begin commercial
       service at the Baglan Energy Park in South Wales in 2002.

                                  -End of TechLine-

    For more information, contact:
   Robert C. Porter, DOE Office of Fossil Energy, 202-586-6503, e-mail:
   robert.porter@hq.doe.gov

   Technical Program Contacts:
   Abbie W. Layne, Advanced Turbine Systems Product Manager, National
   Energy Technology Laboratory, 304-285-4603, e-mail: alayne@netl.doe.gov

   Kanwal Mahajan, Project Manager, National Energy Technology Laboratory,
   304-285-4965, e-mail: kmahaj@netl.doe.gov
   -
   -
                                                                            -

                                                       Back to Top of Page
   -
   -
     Read More About...
   -
      -  Tomorrow's Turbines -
             DOE's Advanced Turbine
             R&D Program -
   -
   -
     Quick Search
   -
    _______________ Search Techlines
   -
     Other Search Options
   -
      -  By Techline Topic
      -  By Year
      -  By This Year Only
    -
   -
   -
     More DOE News
   -
      -  DOE-wide News
      -  Main DOE Site
    -
                      -
                       Connect to Main DOE Web Site
                                                   -
   -

   This site is maintained by the Office of Fossil Energy, U.S. Department
   of Energy, Washington, DC, 20585
   General e-mail: fewebmaster@hq.doe.gov | Technical questions about web
   site: fewebsupport@hq.doe.gov
