http://appl.nasa.gov/knowledge/issues/jim_barrowman_profile.html


      menu
      click to read About APPL
      click to view Leadership Place
      click to view the Knowledge Sharing Page
      click to view ask magazine
      click to view Best Practices page
      Click to view Teams Page
      Click for Issues technology
      Click for Articles Page
      click to view bookstore
      Click for iKnowledge Forum Page
      Click to view calender
      Click to view resources pages
      Click to View Tools Page
      Click to Contact Us
      Click to view site map
      Click to View APPL Home

                   search
   ____________________
   [gosearch.gif]-Submit
   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]


   knowledge sharing

   [spacer.gif]
   PROJECT MANAGEMENT
   JIM BARROWMAN PROFILE

   The following excerpts were taken from a conversation with retired NASA
   project manager Jim Barrowman about his career, experiences, and
   philosophy of project management.

   August 22, 2001, Falls Church, VA--I learned early on that I really
   love airplanes and model airplanes, and got into it as a hobby. Then it
   grew into a passion for aerodynamics and things that fly. At one point
   just after my freshman year at the University of Cincinnati, I was in a
   phone booth waiting to find out whether I'd be going to Wright
   Patterson Airforce base or Goddard SFC. It was a question of my grades:
   if I got Bs or better, I'd go to Goddard, otherwise I'd go to Wright
   Patterson. Fortunately I ended up at Goddard, and I've been there ever
   since.

   At Goddard, I was frustrated by the way we had to physically take our
   job over to a computer. We would literally carry our job in big trays
   of punch cards over to the main computer, an IBM 7094. So I proposed to
   my boss that these new things called modems could send jobs over the
   phone lines, instead of carrying them back and forth. You talk about a
   modem today, and it's a little card or piece of circuitry on the
   motherboard that's no bigger than a matchbook. Modems back then were
   the size of a small table!

   I found that what I enjoyed was this whole idea of working with other
   folks to make something happen that hadn't happened before. Not
   technically, but from the standpoint of capability. And not just
   working by myself off in a corner, but working with the 7094 people and
   the telephone company to find out what's possible. I found that I liked
   that process of bringing things together, which begins to sound a
   little bit like project management.

   I created one particular program that's still in use down at Wallops. I
   took a program that General Electric was using called the mass missions
   satellite simulation program (MASS), and adapted it for use with
   sounding rockets; I made it more user-friendly and easier to do input.
   And then I created a program that did the aerodynamic analysis of
   sounding rockets to determine if they're aerodynamically stable, and
   that's a tool that's still in use, so I feel good about that.

   I was deeply involved with the educational programs office at Goddard.
   I did a lot of speaking to let people know what's going on at NASA. At
   one point I actually ended up doing some substitute teaching as part of
   my NASA education work. I'd been doing model airplanes when I was a
   kid, which was a new hobby that had basically just been invented. There
   were a couple of clubs I got involved with. The upshot was that I
   became the senior advisor of a club of young people. I had created a
   way to calculate the stability of model rockets that was simplified to
   the point where junior high and high school kids could use it.

   For four years, I ran the association out of my basement. It drew me
   in, working with people, working with management, coming to appreciate
   what it takes to manage people very early in my career. And I found
   that I enjoyed it. I enjoy watching them learn and gain confidence and
   ultimately succeed. That became one of the things I enjoyed throughout
   my career. One of my motivators was helping people succeed.

   In NASA's sounding rocket program, you launch rockets from strange
   places, because you can't launch rockets in urban areas. I've been
   above the Arctic Circle in Sweden to launch rockets, near the Arctic
   Circle in Canada, White Sands, New Mexico. The sounding rocket program
   is one of those learning experiences that I hope NASA holds onto. I
   think it's a very powerful training device for scientists, engineers,
   as well as managers.

   The first big trip that I personally took was associated with the NAR,
   in Yugoslavia at the height of the Cold War. This was back when Tito
   was in power. You got to go drink with these guys, who called
   themselves radish Communists: red on the outside but white on the
   inside.

   My lessons in Russian history during the revolution really struck me:
   how the caretaker government basically lost control of the country
   because they didn't consider themselves an actual government. By being
   tentative, they lost control of the situation, and that was a lesson I
   took both to work and at home. Not that I'm control freak, but you have
   to recognize that you can't be tentative with what you're doing.
   Whatever you're doing, you need to go at it full boar. To do it
   tentatively is to doom yourself to failure.

   James S. Barrowman served as a project and program manager at the
   Goddard Space Flight Center for 22 years, managing Attached Shuttle and
   Space Station Payloads, the Explorers Program, and the Hubble Space
   Telescope Program. He was awarded NASA's Exceptional Service Medal
   twice, as well as a Goddard Space Flight Center Award of Merit. He has
   also been the President of the National Association of Rocketry.
   email Jim Barrowman

   [spacer.gif]
   news & articles
   project management
   best practices
   teams
   technology
   techspace
   nanotechnology
   nets
   intelligent systems
   super
   interface
   appl
   [spacer.gif]
