http://techtran.msfc.nasa.gov/business.html

   Technology Transfer Program Technology Transfer Program
   Who we are Patents and Licenses Other Links Site Map
   Working with Marshall Banner

   Working with Marshall Banner

      Academy for Lifetime Learning
      January 23, 2002 : 1:30 - 3:00 p.m.
      University of Alabama in Huntsville - Wilson Hall, Room 104
      Dr. James Dowdy will be presenting "NASA Technology, Changing the World
      Every Day"Synopsis: How does NASA technology affect your life? The
      benefits of America's space program can be found just about everywhere.
      Tax dollars spent in space have resulted in Earth-bound technology used
      to improve everyday life in homes and communities. Sponcered by
      University of Alabama in Huntsville, Continuing Education Department.


      The Materials Information Society (ASM)

      November 5-6, 2001 : 11:30 a.m. - 7:30 p.m.
      Indianapolis Convention Center, Indianapolis, IN

      In conjunction with the 21st Heat Treating Society Conference, this is
      the place where the latest in materials and process R&D comes together
      with industrial applications and information you can use right away.
      NASA Technology Transfer representatives will be present to discuss
      their materials-related technologies.


      Digital Video Expo (DV)

      December 4-6, 2001 : 10:30 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
      South Hall K, Los Angeles Convention Center, Los Angeles, CA

      DV Expo -- celebrating its fifth year -- is the largest event focused
      exclusively on the needs of creative professionals that are involved in
      the art of digital video production, postproduction, and delivery. MSFC
      Technology Transfer representatives will showcase their Video Image
      Stabilization and Registration (VISAR) technology.


      Minority and Woman-Owned Business Capabilities Expo

      January 8, 2002 : 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. (Tuesday)
      January 9, 2002 : 8:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. (Wednesday)
      Aerospace Technology Center, Calhoun Community College, Decatur, AL

      The Capabilities Exposition is an opportunity for minority and
      woman-owned companies to showcase their capabilities to major prime
      contractors and MSFC program/project managers.


      The Society for Optical Engineering (SPIE) Medical Imaging Conference

      February 25-27, 2002 : 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
      San Diego Convention Center, San Diego, CA

      This event will get you up to date on the latest industry trends and
      allow you to conduct a month's worth of product and vendor research in
      just days. You can talk with technical experts to ask systems designers
      and engineers questions about the most current imaging components,
      equipment, and services. NASA Technology Transfer representatives will
      highlight their imaging-related technologies and participate in
      industry briefings.


      National Design & Engineering Show + National Manufacturing Week

      March 18-21, 2002 : 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
      McCormick Place Complex, Chicago, IL

      Within National Manufacturing Week, the Design & Engineering Show
      addresses the needs of the design engineering market. More than 1,000
      exhibitors feature all the latest tools, components, and materials used
      in mechanical and electromechanical design and product development.
      NASA Technology Transfer representatives will be on-hand to discuss
      their manufacturing-related technologies to appropriate companies.


      Materials Research Society (MRS)

      April 2-4, 2002 : 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
      San Francisco Marriott, San Francisco, CA

      The meeting will include 23 symposia that highlight the latest advances
      in the understanding, synthesis, and application of materials in fields
      ranging from energy storage, generation, and transport to biomaterials
      and biomimetic materials. NASA Technology Transfer will feature their
      materials-related technologies.


      Automated Manufacturing Expo

      May 7-9, 2002 : 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
      Palmetto Exposition Center, Greenville, SC

      AM Exposition will include suppliers from around the Southeast in
      automation and assembly technology, contract manufacturing, and plant
      engineering. NASA Technology Transfer will highlight their
      manufacturing-related technologies.


      The Society for the Advancement of Materials Process Engineering
      (SAMPE)

      May 12-16, 2002 : 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
      Long Beach Convention Center, Long Beach, CA

      SAMPE is the only technical society that encompasses all fields of
      materials and processes, providing a unique and valuable forum for
      scientists, engineers, and academicians. NASA Technology Transfer
      representatives will be spotlighting their materials-related
      technologies and participating in industry briefings.


      The American Telemedicine Association (ATA) Annual Meeting

      June 3-4, 2002 : 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
      Los Angeles Convention Center, Los Angeles, CA

      The ATA is the world's largest scientific meeting and exposition
      focusing exclusively on telemedicine. The attendees are highly focused
      consumers involved in the direct management of medical programs that
      utilize products with telecommunications technology applications. MSFC
      Technology Transfer representatives will feature its Video Image
      Stabilization and Registration (VISAR) technology.


      Southern Growth Policy Board Annual Meeting

      June 9-11, 2002 : 7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
      Hilton Head, SC

      This year's event is entitled "Human Capital Strategies for the Next
      Economy." The meeting will include the South's governors, state
      legislators, workforce professionals, and leading experts and thinkers
      from across the country to discuss new strategies and best practices
      for building the workforce of the future. With the goal of economic
      development of the South, the Southern Growth Policy Board includes 14
      Southern governors.


      Sensors Expo 2002

      September 24-26, 2002 : 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
      World Trade Center, Boston, MA

      The Sensors Expo is composed of seven different sensors industry
      programs: the Business Summit; Data Acquisition and Analysis; Design
      and Manufacturing; MEMS and Micromachining; Motion Control and Machine
      Vision; Smart Sensors and Intelligent Systems; and Wireless, Internet,
      Networking, and Optical Sensing. NASA Technology Transfer
      representatives will be present to highlight their sensors-related
      technologies to appropriate companies, as well as participating in
      industry briefings.

   [spacer.gif]

   Home

   Search
   Marshall Capabilities
   Partnerships
   Innovator's Corner
   Business Opportunities
   Working with Marshall
   Small Business Programs
   Technology Spotlight
   In-house Programs
   Technology Opportunities
   Facilities Commercialization
   Software Opportunities
   Publications
   Success Stories
   Patents/Licenses
   Other Links
   Site Map
