http://info.texas.gov/page.jsp?language=eng&pageId=help

    Skip to content

   Texas Online
                En Español Accessibility Privacy Help


   About Texas
   Business and Consumer Services
   Education and Training
   Employment and Labor
   Environment and Natural Resources
   Government
   Health and Family Services
   Laws and Criminal Justice
   Licenses, Permits, Registration, and Public Records
   Online Services
   Regional and Community Resources
   Travel and Recreation

   Search


   ________       GO
   Advanced Search


   Statewide Search TRAIL

   Quicklinks > I want to... FAQs
   Home : Help


   Help

                 "Navigation is the key to this enterprise."
                           - Christopher Columbus

   Since there is more than one way to surf a web site, we included
   several different ways for you to explore ours.

First things first

   A few of the most popular services, primarily for individual citizens,
   are listed right on the front page of the site. You can jump directly
   to these services and information resources simply by pointing to the
   desired choice and clicking (for example: Online Services and Featured
   Sites).

   A quick way to get answers to some of the most common questions is to
   read the FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) page. First-time visitors are
   encouraged to review these questions and answers. Also, many popular
   services are listed in the Quick Links drop-down box, "I Want To?"
   Check that out, too.

Know what you want, but don't know where to look?

   There are several ways to explore the content of this site to find what
   you're looking for. You can enter key words into the "Search" box and
   click "Go." More detailed information about searching TexasOnline is
   available by clicking the "Advanced Search" link.

   The links across the top and bottom of the page will take you to pages
   that are quite focused, in line with the name of the link such as
   "Privacy," "Security," and our "Link Policy."

   At the left of the screen, you will find a list of subject categories.
   As you point to each one, you will find that each is the top, most
   general category in a hierarchy of menus. Pointing to one of these
   categories will cause a secondary menu to open to the right. Moving
   your mouse pointer into this menu will allow you to click on a
   destination category or open yet another menu, depending on the choice.
   You can find everything in the site through one of these paths.

Browsers

   This site was built taking into consideration older browser
   technologies that are still predominant throughout the Internet today.
   If you don't see a menu open automatically as you point to one of these
   categories, it means you are using an older version of your Internet
   browser. In that case, you'll need to click on the category you are
   interested in. This will take you to another page that displays a
   series of links. These links will either take you to your destination,
   or to another page of links, depending on the choice.

   You are encouraged to upgrade your Netscape or Microsoft browser to at
   least version 4.0 so that you can take advantage of some of the modern
   features of TexasOnline.

   To upgrade your Netscape browser, click:
   http://www.netscape.com/computing/download/. To upgrade your Microsoft
   browser click: http://www.microsoft.com/windows/ie/.

   If you use an Opera browser, click here to upgrade:
   http://www.opera.com/download/.

   If you are a member of America Online, try this site:
   http://www.aol.com/.

Adobe Acrobat

   As you visit the various links provided you may find information that
   can be downloaded. Many state agencies and local governments use a .pdf
   format that must be opened with Adobe Acrobat Reader?. Click on the
   link http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep2.html to get
   instructions on how to download and install the Acrobat Reader?.

Browse by Category

   Browsing by category is an easy way to navigate TexasOnline and to find
   Web sites in related areas. You need no special commands or
   keystrokes...everything is point-and-click.

   Suppose you want to apply to a Texas university. Start by pointing to
   the category Education and Training. That will open a list of
   sub-categories, from which you could choose Apply to a College.
   TexasOnline works the same no matter what you looking for. Start with
   the most general category and narrow your focus as you go.

   As you move from one category to the next, highlighted category names
   mark your progress. With this path you always know where you are and
   where you've been. You can always go back to any section of the path
   just by clicking on that section or by using the Back button on your
   browser.

Search by Keyword

   Keyword Search quickly finds specific names, titles and terms within
   the TexasOnline system. Just type a word or phrase into the search box
   and click on "Go."

   The TexasOnline search engine checks the Web sites within the
   TexasOnline database. When the process is complete, you receive a list
   of sites that match the topic of your search, or you can select results
   that list documents related to your search.

   For more detailed information about searching, click the Advanced
   Search link.

   Keyword Search Tip: Think big! Don't worry if you end up with a large
   number of results, because the most relevant content will be listed
   first. If you find that your search results are too broad, then go back
   and add some more specific terms. Remember that you'll get more precise
   results by typing "chocolate chip cookie recipe" than, for example,
   just "cookie" in the search box.

Error Messages

   Occasionally, everyone browsing the Internet encounters error messages
   of one sort or another. We'll try to explain a few of the more common
   ones, since the error messages themselves are often hard to understand.
   Each Internet error message begins with a three-digit number:

     301 Moved Permanently. This means the website address has changed
   from the one listed in TexasOnline. Sometimes your browser will
   redirect to the new address automatically. If not, click on the new
   address shown. The editors at TexasOnline try hard to maintain accurate
   destination links, but occasionally, we miss one. If you encounter this
   error message on a link you've followed from TexasOnline, we'd
   appreciate it if you'd let us know.

     404 Not Found. This is the most common error, and it means the
   Internet cannot locate the requested resource. If you have typed your
   destination address, the most likely thing is that you have mistyped it
   somehow. Correct the address and try again. If you encounter this
   message while following a link from TexasOnline, again, please let us
   know, so we can fix it.

     503 Service Unavailable. If you see this message, it means the
   computer that you are needing to communicate with to access the
   resource you want is too busy to handle your request at the moment.
   Wait a few moments and try again.

Feedback and Contact Information

   We are very interested in your experiences with TexasOnline and ask you
   to please contact us if you have comments, suggestions, or
   recommendations to help make the site better. Please review the
   "Contact Us" link to identify who will best be able to address your
   suggestions or questions.

Still stuck?

   For assistance, you can contact us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week toll
   free at 1-877-452-9060, or email us at webhelp@texasonlinehelp.com.

   Contact Us About Us

   Public Information Act Link Policy Legal
