http://www.inwg.cap.gov/capldr.htm

The Journal of Leadership Development for the Professional Volunteers of the
                              Civil Air Patrol

                      (Formerly The CAP Leader Journal)

   We regret that due to a server error the CAP Leader Journal articles
   were erased. Hard copies were retained and we are currently preparing
   to reprint the articles as time permits.

   We are taking this opportunity to redesign the journal.  It is our goal
   to have a journal that is as visually pleasing and appealing as the
   articles are interesting and thought provoking.

   We will begin this process giving The CAP Leader Journal a new name:

   The Journal of Leadership Development for the Professional Volunteers
   of the Civil Air Patrol:

   an electronic publication of the Indiana Wing.

   To emphasis the journals increased importance in Leadership Development
   the position of Journal Editor has been elevated to a Wing position in
   the Indiana Wing of the Civil Air Patrol.

   The journal will also have a new format consistent with our goal of
   meeting the needs and maintaining the interest of more volunteers in
   the Civil Air Patrol, the aviation community, emergency services and
   the military.

   These changes are occurring during a time of national tragedy and
   challenge. Level heads, clear policies and well thought out plans are
   required for our nation to succeed in the coming days and months. With
   that in mind we are accepting articles by readers pertaining to the
   current national crisis and how it effects the members of the Civil Air
   Patrol. The articles will be the focus of our first issue of the
   improved CAP Leader Journal,

   The Journal of Leadership Development for the Professional Volunteer of
   the Civil Air Patrol.

   Submissions may be sent to:
   Maj. Carl W. Jylland-Halverson, Editor
   at:
   Majdoccarl@home.com

   Articles should be written in Word. Articles should be between 800 to
   1500 words. We are interested in your opinions and are not afraid of
   controversy. We do require that the article be written in a
   professional manner.
