http://mcmcweb.er.usgs.gov/topomaps/

   Link to U.S. Geological Survey Home Page
   text version

   General information about topographic mapping
   General information about USGS maps
   Finding and ordering USGS topographic maps
   Digital raster graphics
   computer images of topographic maps
   Topographic map revision
   Topographic map symbols
   Mapping standards
   -National Mapping Program standards
   -Primary series quadrangle map standards

                      Example of a USGS Topographic Map

   Vertical Rule USGS Topographic Maps
   Planetable surveying by turn-of-the-century USGS topographers The
   National Mapping Program of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) is the
   descendent of the Corps of Topographic Engineers, formed in 1838 to map
   the western lands of the then conterminous United States.
   The USGS took over responsibility for mapping the country in 1879 and
   has been the primary civilian mapping agency of the United States ever
   since. The best known of today's USGS maps are the 1:24,000-scale
   topographic maps, also known as 7.5-minute quadrangles. The USGS began
   mapping the country at this scale after World War II and completed the
   program in the late 1980's. More than 57,000 7.5-minute maps were made
   to cover the 48 conterminous States. This is the only uniform map
   series that covers the entire area of the United States in considerable
   detail.
   The USGS today produces more than 80,000 different maps. These include
   the 7.5-minute series, topographic maps at smaller scales, maps of U.S.
   possessions and territories and of Antarctica, special maps of national
   parks and monuments, and geologic and hydrologic maps.
   From National Research Council, 1990, "Spatial Data Needs: The Future
   of the National Mapping Program," National Academy Press.
   A history of the first 110 years of the U.S. Geological Survey
   Search USGS Biology Geology Mapping Water Disclaimer Help!

   U.S. Department of the Interior
   U.S. Geological Survey
   1400 Independence Road, Rolla, MO 65401
   URL: http://mcmcweb.er.usgs.gov/topomaps/index.html
   Last modified: Thursday, 23-Aug-2001 15:07:03 CDT
   Maintainer: mcmcweb@mailrmon1.er.usgs.gov
   USGS Privacy Statement FirstGov - Your First Click to the U.S.
   Government
