http://www.publicaffairs.noaa.gov/budget02/

     [budget02_webtop.jpg]-Submit

     To NOAA's FY 2002 Budget Request...

     TO THE READER:

   I am pleased to present the Budget Summary for the Department of
   Commerce's National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for
   Fiscal Year 2002. This Summary contains information on NOAA's programs
   and strategic goals for Members of Congress, Congressional staff, the
   media, NOAA constituents and customers, and other individuals who have
   an interest in our programs. It provides information on how NOAA
   supports and enhances the goals of the Department of Commerce and the
   President.

   NOAA, through its seven line offices and staff offices, has established
   itself as one of the world's premier scientific and environmental
   agencies. From Boulder to Beaufort, from Kansas City to Gloucester,
   from Princeton to Seattle, from Honolulu to Ann Arbor, and Silver
   Spring to Juneau, the men and women of NOAA are providing services and
   addressing the critical issues that Americans face every day
     * We are an agency that deals with environmental change.
     * We are experts in climate, with its cooling and warming trends.
     * We are an agency that manages fluctuating fisheries and marine
       mammal populations.
     * We observe, forecast and warn the public about the rapidly changing
       atmosphere and especially severe weather.
     * We monitor currents and tides, and beach erosion.
     * We survey the ocean bottom and provide mariners products to
       maintain safe navigation.
     * We operate the nation's most important constellation of earth
       observing satellites.

   Through our website, we provide a voyage of knowledge and exploration
   to Americans everywhere, and especially to schools and young people
   across our Nation.

   This FY 2002 Budget Request strongly supports NOAA's commitment to
   advancing our environmental assessment/prediction and natural resource
   stewardship missions. This budget supports our infrastructure to allow
   NOAA to continue its mission in future years. This budget supports our
   research, science and services from the local weather forecast offices
   around the nation to our aircraft that fly into hurricanes and winter
   storms. It provides for technology infusion, critical infrastructure to
   reduce single points of failure, and it continues our special
   partnerships with universities, states, and local governments around
   the nation. This budget request invests in education and human
   resources.

   This FY 2002 budget embarks NOAA into the 21st century and our second
   thirty years. Under the leadership of Secretary of Commerce Donald L.
   Evans, we are confident that our team of meteorologists,
   oceanographers, marine biologists, computer scientists, climatologists
   and other professionals will do an even greater job of serving the
   American people.

   We greatly appreciate the support that the Congress and our
   constituents have provided NOAA in the past. And, we are proud to
   provide the FY 2002 program for your NOAA.
   [gudessig.jpg]

   Scott B. Gudes

   Acting Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere
   Acting Administrator, NOAA
   Deputy Under Secretary, U.S. Department of Commerce

                 NOAA Home Page | Main Budget Menu noaa logo
