http://www.health-evet.va.gov


   Health Benefits and Services Icon. The image shows a health care
   provider taking a person's blood pressure.
   Return to Health Page
   My Health eVet Home Page
   First Time Users
   Log In
   Registration
   How do I get a My Health eVet Account?
   VA Home Page
       Department of Veterans Affairs Seal: Return to Home Page
   [skip navigation]

   My Health eVet, Your Personal Health Record Image for display purposes
                                               only
                                               Help
   [skip navigation]


   Health Ed Library  | My Health eVet  | Feedback  | Search  | Facilities
   Locator  | FAQs  | Log Off

What is My Health eVet?

   This service is only available to testers at the Bay Pines and Tampa VA
   Medical Centers.

   My Health eVet is a web-based system that empowers veterans with
   information and tools so that they can improve their health to the
   maximum extent possible. Participating veterans are able to obtain
   electronic copies of key portions of their electronic health records.
   This record is stored in a secure and private environment called an
   eVAult where all the data is encrypted. The eVAult will be personalized
   with appropriate links to useful explanatory material to help veterans
   understand what is in their record, and what they can do to improve
   their health condition. Veterans can also add structured medical
   information in the "self-entered" section of their eVAult. The Health
   Ed Library section includes about 18 million pages of information about
   health conditions, medical procedures, medications, and resent health
   news, as well as health tools.

   The veteran "owns" his/her personal health record and has complete
   control over who can view or update it. If they want to, the veteran
   can give another individual full access to view their copies of the VA
   data, as well as view and update their "self entered" data. The veteran
   can also give limited access to an individual to only view certain
   subjects. These individuals are called delegates and grantees.

   If the veteran gives his provider access to his/her personal health
   journal, the veteran should understand that the health care provider
   would not be able to read this information on a regular basis. Please
   read the disclaimer statements carefully.

   General Disclaimer
   Medical Disclaimer & Agreement
   Privacy & Security Statement

   I JUST GOT MY USERNAME AND PASSWORD FROM THE VA. What do I do next? -
   If you have already been to the VA medical center and enrolled as a
   participant, you will have your Username and Password. You must first
   use the First Time Users link on the left to change your password. Do
   not try to log on first.  After you change your password, no one but
   you will know your password, so be sure you remember it or write it
   down and store it in a safe place. Then you may sign on using the Log
   In link.

   I HAVE SIGNED IN BEFORE AND NOW SOMEONE ELSE WANTS TO GIVE ME ACCESS TO
   THEIR DATA - You should sign-on using the link on the left. Then select
   Preferences, and enter your "Shared Hint".  You then give your Username
   and Shared Hint (not your password) to the other person so they can
   give you access to their data. They will use the Account Access link to
   add you to their list of people who can access their data.

   I DO NOT HAVE A USERNAME AND PASSWORD, BUT I NEED TO REGISTER SO
   SOMEONE ELSE CAN GIVE ME ACCESS TO THEIR DATA - If you want to "self
   register" so someone else can give you access to their data, click on
   the Registration link on the left. After you register, you should
   sign-on using the Log In link on the left. Then select the Preferences
   link, then the Change Your Shared Hint link and enter your "Shared
   Hint". You then give your Username and Shared Hint (not your password)
   to the other person so they can give you access to their data. They
   will use the Account Access link to add you to their list of people who
   can access their data.

   Health Ed Library  | My Health eVet  | Feedback  | Search  | Facilities
   Locator  | FAQs
   General Disclaimer  | Medical Disclaimer & Agreement  | Privacy &
   Security Statement

   Reviewed/Updated: January 22, 2002
