http://www.cwc.anl.gov

                                              Security notice | Disclaimer

                             [USEMAP:banner.jpg]


       [justice.jpg]

                                                   MANUAL FOR
                                             NATIONAL IMPLEMENTATION
                                                     OF THE
                                           CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION

                                                  (Web Edition)

                                   prepared by:


   Professor Barry Kellman, J.D.
   Director, International Criminal Justice and Weapons Control Center
   DePaul University College of Law
   25 East Jackson Boulevard, Room 725
   Chicago, Illinois, USA 60604
   Tel: (312) 362-5258
   Fax: (312) 362-5448
   E-Mail: bkellman@wppost.depaul.edu
   Edward A. Tanzman, J.D.
   Argonne National Laboratory
   9700 South Cass Avenue, DIS-900
   Argonne, Illinois, USA 60439-4832
   Tel: (630) 252-3263
   Fax: (630) 252-5327
   E-Mail: tanzman@anl.gov

                                   November 1999

                                   published by:

             International Criminal Justice and Weapons Control Center
                                 _________________

                            PREFACE TO THE WEB EDITION

      Welcome to the Web Edition of the Manual for National Implementation of
      the Chemical Weapons Convention. This version of the Manual is intended
      to build on the two previous editions to make it easier to understand
      the legal issues created by the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC), as
      well as options for addressing them. The philosophy that guided
      development of the Web Edition remains the same as for the earlier
      versions the legal obligations created by the CWC for States Parties
      can be addressed through national implementing measures and need not
      become an obstacle to signature, ratification, or compliance.

      The Web Edition of the Manual continues a progression begun with the
      first edition. That document, written in 1993 immediately after the CWC
      was opened for signature, explained the various national implementation
      obligations contained in the Convention, presenting the authors
      analysis of various national implementation options. The second
      edition, published in 1998, clarified the national implementation
      options to reflect post-entry-into-force thinking, added extensive
      references to national implementing measures that had been enacted by
      various States Parties, and included a prototype national implementing
      statute developed by the authors to provide a starting point for those
      whose national implementing measures were still under development. The
      Web Edition of the Manual makes it possible for readers to consult the
      actual text of these implementing measures and of the CWC itself.

      This new feature offers several advantages. First, it permits readers
      to place references cited in the Manual in the context contained in the
      original source. Second, it permits readers to examine related
      provisions to those cited in the Manual from within the original source
      material. Finally, where the cited reference is itself a web page, it
      enables exploration of other related topics.

      In order to use the Web Edition of the Manual to its maximum extent,
      readers must understand the different categories of cited sources, as
      well as how the hypertext hotlinks to those sources operate. The
      sources cited in the Manual can be grouped into three categories.
      First, the CWC itself is linked to the Manual from the official web
      page of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
      (OPCW), which is the international implementing organization
      established by the CWC. The sophisticated technology of the OPCW web
      page and the cooperation of its staff permit the Manuals links to the
      CWC to refer directly to the cited section of the Convention. Second,
      where the authors were aware of national CWC web pages in English that
      include the text of national implementing measures cited in the Manual,
      those citations in the Manual contain hypertext hotlinks to the
      corresponding national web page. This enables readers to consult the
      official current text of these measures, which may change over time. In
      addition, these links give readers access to other CWC-related
      resources provided on those national web pages. Currently, such links
      are available to Australia and the United Kingdom directly and to Czech
      Republic and Denmark through the OPCW web site; the Manual also
      provides links to national CWC web sites maintained by Canada and
      Finland, which provide useful CWC-related resources.   Third, where the
      authors had available only a hard copy of referenced national
      implementing measures, the hypertext hotlinks are to digitized images
      of the hard copy that the authors used as the reference. Because of the
      nature of such scanned images, it is only possible to link the
      reference in the Manual to the beginning of the corresponding document;
      unlike the CWC links, these links cannot bring readers directly to a
      referenced section. Furthermore, while it is possible to block and copy
      an entire digitized document to ones hard drive, it is not possible to
      copy only a portion.

      Regardless of the type of document referenced, all of the links work
      the same way. In each case, the titles of referenced documents (which
      are usually found in foonotes) are highlighted in blue. By pointing a
      computer cursor to the highlighted title and clicking once with the
      left button of a mouse, a readers internet browser will switch its
      display to the corresponding referenced document or website. In order
      to return to the page containing the referenced, readers must point
      their cursors at the "back" button on their web browser.

      In addition to the referenced documents, the Web Edition of the Manual
      also contains extensive internal hotlinks to facilitate its use.
      Readers can scroll through the entire document, or else can use their
      mice to click to any chapter or subchapter using the blue chapter
      headings in the Table of Contents, which is located below following the
      Introduction. All footnotes, which are indicated using superscripted,
      underlined numbers in parantheses, are highlighted in order to permit
      readers to switch to the text of any footnote. From within footnotes,
      readers may either switch back to the text where a given footnote is
      located, or else scroll to preceding or following footnotes. Thus, the
      Web Edition of the Manual allows readers maximum flexibility to best
      use it to meet their needs. Readers are encouraged to e-mail their
      questions, comments, or suggestions to the authors by clicking on
      either of their e-mail address, listed in blue above, and sending a
      message.

      Creating the Web Edition of the Manual required extraordinary effort by
      a number of dedicated professionals. The authors are especially
      grateful to Robert Baker, Banchoice Bonner, and Joel Davisson of
      Argonne National Laboratory and to Johan Santesson of the OPCW for
      their creativity and dedication. Of course, the authors remain
      responsible for any errors or omissions.
                                 _________________

                            INTRODUCTION TO THE MANUAL

      The Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC)^(1) is an unprecedented
      multilateral effort to eradicate an entire category of weapons of mass
      destruction and assure their continued absence through international
      verification. With its comprehensive regulatory regime to verify
      compliance, the CWC presages a new foundation for international
      security based neither on fear nor on trust, but on the rule of law.

      The CWC absolutely prohibits the possession or use of chemical weapons.
      No State Party may use chemical weapons nor engage in any military
      preparations for such use; nor may a State Party develop, acquire,
      stockpile or retain chemical weapons, nor transfer them or assist
      anyone to engage in prohibited conduct.^(2) The CWC further mandates
      that chemical weapons stockpiles and production facilities be
      declared and destroyed.^(3) Significantly, the CWC seeks to verify that
      States Parties do not initiate or resume chemical weapons production or
      storage. Verifying nonproduction of chemical weapons is the core of the
      CWC, and even States Parties with no chemical weapons to destroy must
      comply with the verification measures.

      To carry out its goals, the CWC creates the Organization for the
      Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), an independent international
      body to monitor CWC States Parties' activities to ensure that the CWC's
      requirements are met. The OPCW is vested with extensive rule-making,
      investigative, and dispute resolution responsibilities. It comprises
      three organs: (1) the Conference of States Parties oversees the
      operation of the CWC, enacts rules of procedure, and resolves issues as
      to the CWC's scope and State Party compliance; (2) the Executive
      Council, with a rotating membership of 41 States Parties based on
      equitable geographical distribution, oversees day-to-day activities
      including supervising verification; and (3) the Technical Secretariat,
      consisting of a Director-General appointed for a four-year term as well
      as inspectors and other personnel, carries out the CWC verification
      measures and performs functions delegated to it by the Conference and
      the Council.

      A central feature of the CWC is that it requires each State Party to
      adopt implementing measures to make the Convention operative. The CWC
      goes beyond all prior weapons control treaties in this regard. This
      Manual for National Implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention
      is designed to foster this approach by assisting States Parties in
      maximizing CWC enforcement consistent with their national legal
      obligations.

      1 Purposes

      This Manual is intended to focus governmental attention on the legal
      issues concerning CWC implementation. It acknowledges areas of
      ambiguity that States Parties should address, and it analyzes legal
      initiatives that may be undertaken to strengthen the Convention's
      enforcement. It is intended to build confidence that the legal issues
      identified are finite and addressable. States Parties need not be
      alarmed by a seeming endless array of legal problems.

      This Manual is not a supplement to or revision of the CWC itself. The
      many political, economic, and technical decisions that comprise the
      final treaty are not re-visited or second-guessed. Nor does it
      prescribe a uniform approach for all States Parties that would ignore
      the vast differences among national legal traditions. The composition
      and distribution of the Manual is an effort to promote a valuable
      exchange of ideas that each State Party may adapt as it deems suitable.
      The Manual is, therefore, a tool to increase understanding of the
      Convention, to identify its obligations, and to suggest national
      implementing measures to meet them.

      The CWC presents a challenge to nations around the world to implement
      complicated and far-reaching tasks. Global peace and security depend on
      the success of their efforts. This Manual's success will be measured by
      its contribution to that effort.

      2 Background of The MANUAL

      The first edition of the Manual, published in December 1993, was
      designed to assist states in bringing the CWC into force. The project
      was initiated at the suggestion of the Provisional Technical
      Secretariat (PTS) in order to help focus attention on legal issues
      surrounding CWC implementation. The work was supported and funded
      through Argonne National Laboratory, by a grant from the John D. and
      Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, and by DePaul University College of
      Law.

      A Committee of Legal Experts on National Implementation of the Chemical
      Weapons Convention made up of jurists, law professors, legally-trained
      diplomats, government officials and Parliamentarians from every region
      of the world reviewed and commented on the early drafts. A Conference
      of the Committee of Legal Experts was held in late 1993 to critique the
      penultimate draft. After the Conference, the authors revised that draft
      in light of the many contributions that the Committee made to its
      format and content. The Manual was intially distributed at the Fifth
      Plenary Session of the Conference of States Parties on December 18,
      1993 to delegates of signatory states. Since then, it has been
      distributed worldwide.

      Entry into force is an appropriate time to update the Manual. States
      Parties must soon enact implementing measures that establish national
      authorities and that prepare government agents and citizens to meet CWC
      obligations. Decision-makers will need the most up-to-date and thorough
      treatment of pertinent issues. This second edition of the Manual,
      responds by: (1) incorporating new information, both national
      implementing legislation and OPCW guidance documents, and (2)
      addressing tangible implementation issues.

      The authors would like to acknowledge the support and funding of
      Argonne National Laboratory and the International Criminal Justice and
      Weapons Control Center of DePaul University Law School. Also deserving
      of immense gratitude are the exceptional contributions of Jonathan Fox,
      Esq., Lisa Tucker, Esq., Rebecca Haffenden, Esq., and Ken Lerner, Esq.

      3 Structure of The MANUAL

      The many tasks that States Parties must implement are organized into
      two Parts, each comprised of six chapters. Part I considers how each
      State Party can establish administrative authority in its government
      and legal system to carry out its CWC obligations. This material
      concentrates on the issues that States Parties face concerning the
      allocation of CWC-relevant authority within and among governmental
      agencies. Part II considers legal issues relevant to verification
      activities at private facilities, concentrating on how to enable the
      state to comply with the CWC while effectively protecting private legal
      rights. Appendix A is prototype CWC implementing statute assembled from
      the texts of already-enacted statutes of States Parties. Appendix B is
      a bibliography of the CWC national implementing measures used in
      preparation of this Manual.

      Detailed Table of Contents


                 PART I: ESTABLISHMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY

      Chapter 1 -- Giving The CWC Force and Effect:

      Each State Party must give the CWC legal force and effect, typically
      through a ratification process that is unique to its national law.
      Moreover, each State Party must give the CWC internal effect by
      incorporation into domestic law. Incorporation may be automatic upon
      ratification, or may require enactment of legislation. Finally, each
      State Party must determine the scope of its jurisdiction over
      CWC-related activities. At minimum, each State Party's legal authority
      must extend to activities and persons within its jurisdiction and
      control as defined by the Convention.

      Chapter 2 -- National Authority:

      Each State Party must designate or establish a National Authority to be
      the focal point for effective liaison with the OPCW and other States
      Parties. The CWC neither explicitly requires that all CWC-related
      powers and duties be delegated to the National Authority nor specifies
      a particular structure within the national bureaucracy. Various issues
      pertinent to assigning tasks and empowering the National Authority
      should be considered.

      Chapter 3 -- Destruction of Chemical Weapons and Production Facilities:

      Each State Party having chemical weapons or their production facilities
      must destroy those items. Destruction must be carried out in accordance
      with extensive and complex CWC provisions. For the vast majority of
      States Parties, these obligations will impose no implementation
      obligations, but States Parties may want to address the possibility
      that criminals might develop or acquire chemical weapons.

      Chapter 4 -- Restrictions on Chemicals:

      Each State Party must restrict the production and transfer of certain
      chemicals. The CWC stipulates strict limits concerning the production,
      acquisition, retention, use, or transfer of chemicals listed on
      Schedule 1. In addition, the CWC requires strict control of transfers
      of various chemicals. Depending on the extent and sophistication of the
      domestic chemical industry, this could entail significant regulation.

      Chapter 5 -- Penal Legislation:

      Each State Party must enact penal legislation to prohibit persons
      within its jurisdiction from undertaking CWC-prohibited activities.
      Most CWC-prohibited activities relate to chemical weapons, but States
      Parties may extend penal legislation to apply to activities that
      undermine the CWC's verification regime. In this regard, States Parties
      should consider how best to integrate penalization of CWC-prohibited
      activities with constitutional and statutory protections that apply to
      persons accused of an offense.

      Chapter 6 -- Legal Assistance and Cooperation:

      Each State Party must provide other States Parties with the appropriate
      form of legal assistance as to CWC activities. Each State Party must
      define the extent of this requirement according to its domestic law,
      its other international obligations, and the CWC's purposes. States
      Parties may have to implement necessary measures to make or fulfill a
      request for assistance.


              PART II: VERIFICATION ACTIVITIES AT PRIVATE FACILITIES

      Chapter 7 -- Declarations:

      Each State Party must make declarations regarding items and activities
      relevant to chemical weapons and precursor chemicals. States Parties
      should consider what government agency will take responsibility for
      compiling this information and submitting it to the OPCW. In addition,
      each State Party should consider how best to gather the information
      that will enable it to make the required declarations, including
      establishing reporting requirements for the chemical industry and
      providing penalties for failing to report.

      Chapter 8 -- Routine Inspections I - Selection of Sites and
      Arrangements for Inspectors:

      Each State Party must understand which aspects of the complex and
      extensive CWC routine inspection scheme are applicable to it and must
      undertake several tasks with regard to the selection/treatment of
      inspectors. Fulfillment of these obligations should not raise complex
      legal issues; States Parties have numerous implementation options that
      can help make CWC inspections consistent with national law.

      Chapter 9 -- Routine Inspections II - Access To Facilities and Conduct
      of Inspections:

      Each State Party must enable CWC inspections at private facilities to
      be conducted consistent with the legal rights of facility owners and
      personnel. Accordingly, each State Party must: (1) enable inspectors to
      gain access to facilities, (2) perform inspection-related tasks; (3)
      require persons at facilities to perform specific tasks; and (4)
      protect public safety and the environment. Implementation of these
      inspections should correspond to other forms of important government
      regulation that impact on individual rights and liberties.

      Chapter 10 -- Challenge Inspections:

      Each State Party must implement measures so that challenge inspections
      may proceed, if necessary, without violating legal rights. Most
      implementation measures will be consistent with those undertaken
      regarding routine inspections and will not require duplicative
      measures. However, gaining access to facilities and exit monitoring may
      raise unique legal issues concerning the privacy of persons. Moreover,
      each State Party must delegate authority to its agents to perform
      various tasks and must implement measures to require that citizens
      perform certain tasks, notably with respect to managed access
      procedures.

      Chapter 11 -- Protection of Confidential Information:

      Each State Party must give effect to the CWC's measures to protect
      confidential information. Confidentiality may be jeopardized by CWC
      activities, including required declarations and inspections. States
      Parties cannot withhold required national security or confidential
      business information, but may take steps to protect these types of
      information. States Parties should consider, in light of domestic law,
      implementation of appropriate procedures to protect against
      unauthorized disclosure of information.

      Chapter 12 -- Remedies:

      Each State Party may consider providing remedies if CWC activities
      contravene persons' legal rights. However, States Parties could
      consider denying injunctive relief that would prevent CWC compliance
      efforts and could instead provide a means to award monetary damages in
      the event that a loss is incurred. Furthermore, States Parties should
      consider the appropriate categories of potentially liable parties and
      may set up procedures to simplify recovery.
          _______________________________________________________________

                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS

                            INTRODUCTION TO THE MANUAL

                                      PART I
                     ESTABLISHMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY

                   CHAPTER 1 -- GIVING THE CWC FORCE AND EFFECT

      1.1 Ratification Process

      1.1.1 Who Is Responsible for Ratification
          1.1.2 Method of Ratification
          1.1.3 Role of the Judiciary Prior to Ratification
          1.1.4 Reservations

      1.2 State Obligations Following Ratification
      1.2.1 Giving the CWC Force under Domestic Law
          1.2.2 Assessing the Authority of Treaties under National Law

      1.3 Jurisdiction
   Conclusions

                     CHAPTER 2 -- THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY

   2.1 Mandatory Obligations for the National Authority

   2.1.1 National Authority as Liaison
       2.1.2 Handling of Confidential Information
       2.1.3 Inspection-Related Tasks Expressly Assigned to the National
       Authority

   2.2 Functions That Could be Assigned to the National Authority

   2.2.1 Control Scheduled Chemicals
       2.2.2 Oversee CWC Verification

   2.3 Functions Within the Field of Competence of Other Governmental
   Agencies
   2.3.1 Control of Chemical Weapons and Chemical Weapons Production
       Facilities
       2.3.2 Penal Enforcement/Legal Assistance
       2.3.3 Privileges and Immunities
       2.3.4 Regulating Trade in Chemicals and Exchanges of Technical
       Information

   Conclusions

              CHAPTER 3 -- DESTRUCTION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND
                            PRODUCTION FACILITIES

   3.1 Chemical Weapons

   3.1.1 Principles and Methods for Destruction

   3.1.1.1 Order of Destruction and
       3.1.1.2 Destruction Plans
       3.1.1.3 Verification of Chemical Weapons

   3.1.2 CWC Provisions on Abandoned Chemical Weapons
   3.1.3 CWC Provisions Regarding Old Chemical Weapons
   3.1.4 Chemical Weapons Production Facilities
   3.1.4.1 Closure of Chemical Weapons Production Facilities
       3.1.4.2 Principles and Methods for Destruction
       3.1.4.3 Order of Destruction and Deadlines
       3.1.4.4 Plans for Destruction
       3.1.4.5 Verification of Destruction
       3.1.4.6 Conversion of Chemical Weapons Production Facilities

   3.2 Measures to Respond to Discovered Chemical Weapons

   3.2.1 Illicit Chemical Weapons or Facilities

   3.2.1.1 Gathering Information About Illicit Chemical Weapons
       3.2.1.2 Confiscating Chemical Weapons
       3.2.1.3 Destroying Confiscated Chemical Weapons
       3.2.1.4 National Measures in Anticipation of Discovering Unknown
       ChemicalWeapons Production Facilities

   3.2.2 Abandoned Chemical Weapons Conclusions

                   CHAPTER 4 -- RESTRICTIONS ON CHEMICALS

   4.1 Restricting Production of Schedule 1 Chemicals

   4.1.1 Restrictions on Production
       4.1.2 Options for Implementation

   4.2 Restrictions on Transfers of Chemicals
   4.2.1 CWC Import/Export Provisions

   4.2.1.1 Schedule 1 Chemicals
       4.2.1.2 Schedule 2 Chemicals
       4.2.1.3 Schedule 3 Chemicals and Other Chemicals

   4.2.2 Options for Implementation 4.3 Economic and Technological
   Development
   4.3.1. Relevant CWC Provisions
       4.3.2. Options for Implementation

   Conclusions

                       CHAPTER 5 -- PENAL LEGISLATION

   5.1 "Enact Penal Legislation"
       5.2 Defining "Activity Prohibited"

   5.2.1 Article I Prohibitions
       5.2.2 Specified Activities with Regard to Destruction or Securing
       ofChemical Weapons and Production Facilities
       5.2.3 Restricted Activities with Regard to Schedule 1 Chemicals
       5.2.4 Restricted Activities with Regard to Transfers of Scheduled
       Chemicals
       5.2.5 Verification Obligations

   5.3 Legal Implications of Penal Law Enforcement
   5.3.1 Potential Legal Problems of Penal Enforcement

   5.3.1.1 Penal Consequences of Searches
       5.3.1.2 Property Confiscations May Raise Due Process Concerns
       5.3.1.3 Culpability of Corporations and Corporate Officers

   5.3.2 Minimizing Penal Implications of CWC Inspections
   5.3.2.1 Deny CWC-Responsible Agency Criminal Law Enforcement Powers
       5.3.2.2 Protection from Self-Incrimination
       5.3.2.4 Protection of Procedural Due Process

   Conclusions

                CHAPTER 6 -- LEGAL ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION

   6.1 Purpose of the Legal Assistance Obligation

   6.1.1 Law Enforcement Objective
       6.1.2 Scope of Obligation to Provide Legal Assistance

   6.2 Introduction To The Forms of Legal Assistance
   6.2.1 Mutual Legal Assistance
       6.2.2 Immobilization and Forfeiture of Illicit Proceeds

   6.2.2.1 Obligation to Confiscate
       6.2.2.2 Grounds for Refusal

   6.2.3 Extradition
   6.2.4 Transfer of Proceedings
   6.2.5 Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Judgments
   6.2.6 Transfer of Prisoners 6.3 Suggested Implementing Measures
   6.3.1 Define the Powers of a Government Agency
       6.3.2 Enumerate Individual Rights Affected by a Request for Legal
       Assistance
       6.3.3 Specify Grounds for Refusing or Postponing a Request for
       Assistance

   Conclusions

                                   PART II
                VERIFICATION ACTIVITIES AT PRIVATE FACILITIES

                          CHAPTER 7 -- DECLARATIONS

   7.1 Relevant CWC Provisions

   7.1.1 Declarations Regarding Chemical Weapons and Production Facilities
       7.1.2 Declarations Regarding Scheduled Chemicals and Facilities
       Usedfor Purposes Not Prohibited

   7.1.2.1 Declarations for Schedule 1 Chemicals and Related Facilities
       7.1.2.2 Declarations for Schedule 2 Chemicals and Related
       Facilities
       7.1.2.3 Declarations for Schedule 3 Chemicals and Related
       Facilities
       7.1.2.4 Declarations for Other Chemical Production Facilities

   7.2 State Party Implementation Options: Collecting Information for
   Declarations
   7.2.1 Inter-Governmental Transfers of Information
       7.2.2 Chemical Industry Reporting

   7.2.2.1 Options to Require Reporting
       7.2.2.2 Options to Penalize Non-Compliance with Reporting
       Requirements

   Conclusions

             CHAPTER 8 -- ROUTINE INSPECTIONS I -- SELECTION OF
                    SITES AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR INSPECTORS

   8.1 Purposes and Characteristics of CWC Inspections

   8.1.1 Schedule 1 Facilities
       8.1.2 Schedule 2 Facilities
       8.1.3 Schedule 3 Facilities
       8.1.4 Other Chemical Production Facilities

   8.2. State Party Implementation Options: Selection and Treatment of
   Inspectors
   8.2.1 Designation of and Objection to Inspectors
       8.2.2 Visas
       8.2.3 Privileges and Immunities
       8.2.4 Approved Equipment
       8.2.5 Entry and Transit

   8.2.5.1 Designating Points of Entry
       8.2.5.2 Transit to Inspection Site
       8.2.5.3 Use of Non-Scheduled Aircraft

   8.2.6 Amenities Conclusions

              CHAPTER 9 -- ROUTINE INSPECTIONS II -- ACCESS TO
                    FACILITIES AND CONDUCT OF INSPECTIONS

   9.1 Characteristics of Inspections

   9.1.1 Notification
       9.1.2 Pre-Inspection Briefing
       9.1.3 Inspectable Items
       9.1.4 Interviews of Personnel
       9.1.5 Photographs
       9.1.6 Sampling
       9.1.7 Safety and Environmental Protection
       9.1.8 Addressing Ambiguities
       9.1.9 Debriefing
       9.1.10 Ending the Inspection
       9.1.11 Reports

   9.2 State Party Implementation Options: Gaining Access To Inspect
   Facilities
   9.2.1 Harmonizing Inspections with Citizens' Rights

   9.2.1.1 Notification and Timing Requirements
       9.2.1.2 Gaining Access with Search Warrants; Consent from
       GovernmentLicensees
       9.2.1.3 Compel Access
       9.2.1.4 Conduct of Inspections

   9.2.2 State Party Performance of Required Tasks
   9.2.2.1 Negotiation of Facility Agreements
       9.2.2.2 Pre-inspection Activities
       9.2.2.3 Assisting Inspections
       9.2.2.4 Concluding Inspections and Departure

   9.2.3 Obligating Persons to Perform CWC Tasks
   9.2.3.1 Tasks for Facility Owners and Operators
       9.2.3.2 Tasks for Facility Personnel

   9.2.4 Protecting Health and the Environment
   9.2.4.1 CWC Sampling Obligations
       9.2.4.2. Environmental and Safety Concerns During Sampling
       9.2.4.3 Options to Protect the Environment and Safety


   9.2.4.3.1 Environmental/Safety Assessments and Data Disclosure
       9.2.4.3.2 Regulation of Emissions/Discharges
       9.2.4.3.3 Management of Wastes Generated During Inspections
       9.2.4.3.4 Public and Occupational Safety Requirements
       9.2.4.3.5 Hazardous Materials Transportation Requirements

   Conclusions

                     CHAPTER 10 -- CHALLENGE INSPECTIONS

   10.1 Article IX Procedures

   10.1.1 Clarification from States Parties
       10.1.2 Requesting Challenge Inspections
       10.1.3 Participants in a Challenge Inspection

   10.1.3.1 Designation of and Objection to Inspectors
       10.1.3.2 Requesting State Party's Observer

   10.1.4 Determining the Site Perimeter and Inspection Team Arrival
   10.1.5 Securing the Perimeter
   10.1.6 Pre-Inspection Briefing and Inspection Plan
   10.1.7 Conduct of Challenge Inspections
   10.1.8 Managed Access
   10.1.9 Reports 10.2 Investigations of Alleged Use

   10.3 State Party Implementation Options for Challenge Inspections
   (andInvestigations of Alleged Use)
   10.3.1 Enabling Inspectors to Perform Required Tasks

   10.3.1.1 Gaining Access to Facilities
       10.3.1.2 Exit Monitoring

   10.3.2 Performance of Tasks by the State Party
   10.3.3 Requiring Private Persons To Perform Tasks Conclusions

                   CHAPTER 11 -- CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

   11.3 CWC Provisions to Protect Confidential Information

   11.3.1 Responsibilities of the OPCW
       11.3.2 States Parties' Responsibilities in Handling Confidential
       Information
       11.3.3 Protection of Confidential Information During On-Site
       Inspections,Generally
       11.3.4 Protection of Confidential Information During Challenge
       Inspections
       11.3.5 Confidentiality of Samples
       11.3.6 Procedures in Case of a Breach of Confidentiality


   11.4 Legal Protection of National Security Information
       11.5 State Party Implementation Options Relating to Confidential
       BusinessInformation

   11.3.1 Threat to CBI Posed by CWC Procedures

   11.3.1.1 Loss through Declarations
       11.3.1.2 Loss through Inspections

   11.3.2 Legal Protection of CBI
   11.3.3 Implementing Measures to Protect Confidential Business
   Information
   11.3.3.1 Preparation and Preventive Measures

   11.3.3.1.1 Formalize System of Marking CBI
       11.3.3.1.2 Preparation for CWC Inspections
       11.3.3.1.3 Preparation of a CBI-Protection Manual
       11.3.3.1.4 Government-Assisted Training and Education

   11.3.3.2 Regulate CBI Handling and Prohibit Its Disclosure
   11.3.3.3 Penalties for Wrongful Disclosure Conclusions

                           CHAPTER 12 -- REMEDIES

   12.1 Types of Relief

   12.1.1 Pre-inspection Relief
       12.1.2 Damages

   12.2 Liable Parties
   12.2.1 Liability of States Parties
       12.2.2 Liability of Government Officials
       12.2.3 Liability of the OPCW and OPCW Personnel

   Conclusions

                                 APPENDICES

   Appendix A -- Chemical Weapons Convention Prototype Implementing
   Statute

   Appendix B -- Table of CWC Implementing Legislation

     __________________________________________________________________


   [opcwlogo.gif] Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
                  (OPCW) Home Page
                               ______________

                         Security notice | Disclaimer
