http://www.cdpr.ca.gov

   This link will take you to the State Personnel Board's listing of
   current jobs available within the Department of Pesticide Regulation.

   1-25-2002 New Report: Forestry Herbicide Residues in Plants of Interest
             to California Tribes
   1-22-2002 New Call for nominations for IPM Innovators
   1-04-2002 Revamped and Expanded School IPM Pages

                                    More New Stuff

                            California Home Page

                            Pesticide Questions?
                    Progress Report Programs and Services
                            News and Publications
                            Laws and Regulations
                       Product and Use Data School IPM
                                   Grants
                                  Licensing
                                    PMAC
                                 Order Forms
                               Pesticide Links
                                 Contact Us
                                 Employment


         Text Version


   Last Updated 1/28/2002
   Contact Webmaster at
   webmaster e-mail

   Department of Pesticide Regulation

      What's New About DPR Search

   California's Energy Challenge:
     Tips for Consumers, Businesses, and Schools Flex your Power
   The Department of Pesticide Regulation protects human health and the
   environment by regulating pesticide sales and use, and by fostering
   reduced-risk pest management.

                                  DPR Logo

                California Environmental Protection Agency

   Access DPR's databases to find out what pesticides are registered in
   California and in the U.S. Get information on what pesticides are used
   in California, on Section 18s, lots more.

   News Releases, pesticide safety information, consumer fact sheets, air
   and water monitoring studies, lots more. Also, you can subscribe to get
   our press releases free via e-mail.

   What we do and how we do it. Registration of pesticides, licensing of
   pesticides applicators, advisors and dealers, endangered species
   information.

   See what types of grant programs DPR has to offer. Some grants provide
   support for demonstration and applied research projects like
   reduced-risk alternatives to conventional pest management practices.
   Funding varies depending on the project.

   Download DPR's proposed regulations, and comment online. Also link to
   California pesticide laws and regulations.

   Let us know what you think about how our programs are working.

   Go to other government and university sites with information on
   pesticides.

   DPR's H20 Home to Ocean Web site features education and outreach
   materials promoting safe use and disposal of home-and-garden pesticides
   to protect water quality.

   Department Newsletter

   DPR licensing.

   Order DPR publications with this form.

   General information, safety tips, food safety, how to deal with a
   specific pest problem, lots more.

   Our goal is to provide you with the best possible service and your
   input is vital to our success.

   Search the DPR web site.

   Visitor information, phone numbers for DPR staff and County
   Agricultural Commissioners, DPR budget and strategic plan

   Pest Management Advisory Committee

   Information for school districts, parents and others regarding
   California's Healthy Schools Act of 2000 (AB 2260).

   We summarize our major accomplishments in 2000 and highlight our most
   important initiatives for 2001.
