http://www.savingsbonds.gov/sav/sbtdhunt.htm

   skip to main content
   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

   Treausry Hunt Logo

                                  Do you...

     * Own a savings bond that you never received in the mail?
     * Have H/HH interest that you never received?
     * Own a savings bond, or registered Treasury note or bond that has
       matured and is no longer earning interest?

   Check TREASURY HUNT!

                                Dividing Line

   Important Notes: The Treasury Hunt database is limited.
     * This system won't help you search for lost notes or bonds.
     * Most records on undeliverable savings bonds since 1996 can be
       searched through this system.
     * Information about savings bonds no longer earning interest is
       incomplete, since data on these older bonds is stored on microfilm
       instead of computers. (You may have savings bonds that aren't
       listed in our system, so be sure to look through your belongings.)
     * Most records for registered notes and bonds can be searched through
       this system.

                                Dividing Line

                                Did you know

     * Each year, over 15,000 savings bonds and 2,000 interest payments
       return to the Department of the Treasury as undeliverable.
     * In addition, over $8 billion worth of savings bonds have stopped
       earning interest, but haven't been cashed.

   Line Divider


   Bookmark this page!

   The TREASURY HUNT database is always growing, so you may want to come
   back soon.
   About Savings Bonds No Longer Earning Interest
   TREASURY HUNT tells you about savings bonds no longer earning interest.
   If you still have these savings bonds, cash them or (if eligible)
   exchange them for HH bonds so your money can start working for you
   again. You can also figure out whether you have savings bonds that have
   stopped earning interest without using TREASURY HUNT. Just check the
   issue date on your savings bonds, then visit "Have Your Bonds Stopped
   Earning Interest?"

   START SEARCH Before searching, please read our Internet Privacy Policy
                               & Terms of Use.
                                  See Also:
                               Treasury Direct

                          Updated December 28, 2001
