http://ord.uscourts.gov/EPAFeeSchedule.pdf

   ELECTRONIC PUBLIC ACCESS MISCELLANEOUS FEE SCHEDULE (Effective July 1,
   2001) Following are fees to be charged by the courts in connection with
   electronic public access to court records. These fees shall apply to
   the United States unless otherwise stated. No fees under this schedule
   shall be charged to federal agencies or programs which are funded from
   judiciary appropriations, including, but not limited to, agencies,
   organizations, and individuals providing services authorized by the
   Criminal Justice Act, 18 U.S.C. ยง 3006A, and bankruptcy administrator
   programs. I. For usage of electronic access to court data via dial up
   service: sixty cents per minute. For public users obtaining information
   through a federal judiciary Internet site: seven cents per page. The
   court may, for good cause, exempt persons or classes of persons from
   the fees, in order to avoid unreasonable burdens and to promote public
   access to such information. Attorneys of record and parties in a case
   (including prose litigants) receive one free electronic copy of all
   documents filed electronically, if receipt is required by law or
   directed by the filer. No fee is owed under this provision until an
   account holder accrues charges of more than $10 in a calendar year. II.
   For printing copies of any record or document accessed electronically
   at a public terminal in the courthouse: ten cents per page. This fee
   shall apply to services rendered on behalf of the United States if the
   record requested is remotely available through electronic access. III.
   For every search of court records conducted by the PACER Service
   Center, $20. JUDICIAL CONFERENCE ADVISORY NOTES Exemptions should be
   granted as the exception, not the rule. The exemption language is
   intended to accommodate those users who might otherwise not have access
   to the information in this electronic form. It is not intended to
   provide a means by which a court would exempt all users. Examples of
   persons and classes of persons who may be exempted from electronic
   public access fees include, but are not limited to: indigents;
   bankruptcy case trustees; not-for-profit organizations; and voluntary
   ADR neutrals. The electronic public access fee applies to court data
   obtained electronically from the public records of individual cases in
   the court, including filed documents and the docket sheet. Courts may
   provide other local court information at no cost. Examples of
   information which can be provided at no cost include: local rules,
   court forms, news items, court calendars, opinions designated by the
   court for publication, and other information - such as court hours,
   court location, telephone listings - determined locally to benefit the
   public and the court.
