http://plan.cancer.gov/inbrief/highlights.htm

   Skip Navigation
   Plans and Priorities for Cancer Research [USEMAP:navmap.gif]

                                            _____________ Search

                              Directors message
                              Executive summary
                           Highlights of progress
                             2003 Budget Request
    Scientific Priorities for Cancer Research Extraordinary Opportunities
          Infrastructure Needed for Cancer Research NCIs Challenge
                                  About NCI
           Planning National Agendas in Disease-Specific Research
     Additional Cancer Information for Patients and Health Professionals


   printer Print this page
   envelope Email this page
   dictionary Define terms on this page

   Highlights of Cancer Research Progress

      One of every two men and one of every three women in the United States
      will develop some type of cancer over the course of their lives.
      Approximately 8.4 million Americans have a history of cancer.
      The consequences are enormous:

     Nearly 25 percent of all deaths in our country are due to cancer.
   Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the U.S., ranking behind
   only heart disease.

     Medical care expenses for cancer patients and survivors add up to $60
   billion
   annually, about five percent of all dollars spent on health care in the
   U.S.

     The toll in pain, suffering, and loss of productivity and income is
   less easily
   measured, but keenly felt by the more than one million patients newly
   diagnosed with
   cancer each year, their families, and communities.
   There is some encouraging news, however. Figures reported in the most
   recent Annual Report to the Nation on the Status of Cancer show that
   from 1992 through 1998, cancer incidence rates declined in men and
   cancer death rates declined in both men and women. This promising trend
   is due to the earnest efforts and ardent determination of so many in
   our country to find better ways to prevent and more effectively treat
   cancer in all its forms.
   Recent advances reported here provide snapshots of a few of the
   thousands of research projects that NCI sponsors each year that
   together bring us ever closer to reaching our goal to achieve a future
   when all cancers are uncommon and easily treated.
   Preventing and Controlling Cancer
   Detecting Cancer
   Treating Cancer
   Understanding Cancer and its Causes

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Preventing and Controlling Cancer

   Cigarette Promotions Influence Smoking Among Youth
   In a study of nearly 500 elementary and high school students in
   Vermont, researchers explored whether promotional activities for
   tobacco influence the smoking behaviors and beliefs of adolescents.
   Results of the study suggest that exposure to tobacco marketing does
   influence youthful attitudes and beliefs about smoking.
   Investigators found that the likelihood that adolescents will start
   smoking increases after they acquire cigarette promotional items such
   as hats or t-shirts with tobacco company logos. These findings
   underscore the harmful effects on adolescents of tobacco advertising
   and suggest that eliminating cigarette promotional campaigns could
   reduce adolescent smoking.
   Personality Variables Predict Adolescent Smoking
   A group of scientists recently determined that better understanding the
   personality characteristics of adolescents who become smokers can
   provide key insights for designing effective prevention strategies.
   These investigators evaluated more than 3,000 fifth graders for factors
   such as a propensity toward rebelliousness, risk-taking behavior,
   problem-solving abilities, and susceptibility to peer compliance and
   approval.
   Following up with the students at the end of high school, investigators
   found that rebelliousness and risk taking had the strongest predictive
   value for future smoking behavior. In light of these findings, the
   researchers suggested that smoking prevention programs should address
   the needs and expectations of rebellious and risk-taking youth and
   should begin no later than fifth grade.
   Learn more about NCI's research on tobacco.

                                                               Top of Page
   Experts Recommend Continuing Promotion of Fruit and Vegetable
   Consumption
   An outside panel of experts recently evaluated NCI's decade-long
   efforts to encourage Americans to include at least five servings of
   fruits and vegetables in their daily diets through the Five A Day
   Program.
   After considering the science underlying the program, its
   implementation, and accomplishments, the group recommended that it
   continue under NCI's leadership while partnering more closely with
   other NIH institutes, Federal agencies such as the Department of
   Agriculture and the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention, and the
   produce industry.
   In addition, the evaluation report recommends that NCI continue and
   expand monitoring of fruit and vegetable consumption in the U.S. as
   well as its research in related areas such as cancer communications,
   behavior change, and the mechanisms by which fruit and vegetable
   consumption reduce cancer risk.
   line

Detecting Cancer

   New Technology May Improve Lung Cancer Detection
   A major obstacle to understanding and treating the abnormal lesions
   that are the first sign of lung cancer is that they are often not
   visible with bronchoscopy, a technique by which physicians use a thin,
   lighted tube to examine the lungs. Some clinicians have reported,
   however, that bronchoscopy using ultraviolet (UV) light fluorescence
   may be a more sensitive technique for detecting these lesions.
   In an effort to explore this question, investigators in an NCI-funded
   Specialized Program of Research Excellence (SPORE) in Lung Cancer
   carried out the first controlled trial comparing the two techniques.
   Both approaches tended to pick up irregularities that were not
   associated with disease, but scientists found that UV fluorescence was
   more than four times as likely as white light bronchoscopy to correctly
   identify precancerous lesions.
   Learn more about NCI's research on cancer imaging

                                                               Top of Page
   Genetic Testing of Stool Samples Detects Most Colorectal Cancers
   Because colorectal cancer cells are shed into the stool, testing stool
   samples can be an easy and non-invasive way to detect colorectal
   cancer.
   Exploring this opportunity, one team of investigators has shown that in
   the majority of patients, colorectal cancers can be detected by
   screening stool samples for the presence of three genes with
   tumor-associated alterations - TP53, K-RAS, and BAT26. More studies now
   are needed to determine the specificity of these genetic tests for
   detecting colorectal cancer in patients without symptoms.

   Learn more about initiatives in early cancer detection
   "Optical Biopsy" Provides a Less Invasive Method for Detecting Cancer
   Another investigator is developing an imaging technique that may permit
   patients of the future with certain types of cancer to undergo "optical
   biopsies," allowing their physicians to diagnose or rule out cancer
   without the need for tissue samples.
   Using a technique known as optical coherence tomography (OCT),
   scientists have been able to capture ultra-high resolution images of
   esophageal and gynecologic tissues, allowing them to identify cancerous
   lesions in these sites. Other organs and surfaces that may be imaged
   with OCT include the gastrointestinal system, the bladder, the lungs,
   and skin.
   In the future, health care providers may be able to improve diagnosis
   and treatment by attaching catheters and endoscopes to OCT
   instrumentation, sparing patients the added time and pain associated
   with more invasive procedures.
   Learn more about NCI's research on cancer imaging.

                                                               Top of Page
   Proteomics Offers Hope for New Prevention, Detection, and Treatment
   NCI has teamed with the Food and Drug Administration to create a
   Clinical Proteomics Program. Proteomics is the systematic study of
   protein expression and function and an important next phase in our
   pursuit of molecular medicine.
   Proteins comprise the functional machinery of the cell, linking
   circuits and pathways that transmit information within the cell and the
   entire organism. In cancer, alterations in genes usually cause defects
   in the corresponding proteins, disrupting the normal communication
   network of the cell. Using proteomics, cancer researchers are
   discovering and characterizing disruptions in the protein communication
   networks that drive the growth and spread of cancer, knowledge that
   will advance early detection, prevention, and drug development.
   For example, a group of NCI scientists has discovered more than 130
   proteins that are altered during the transition from benign to
   malignant disease in breast, ovarian, prostate, and/or esophageal
   cancers. With additional research, these proteins may serve as early
   cancer biomarkers or offer possible targets for therapeutic drug
   development.
   Other NCI investigators have developed protein microarrays of key
   proteins in signal pathways. With this approach, the researchers have
   determined the process of apoptosis, or programmed cell death, becomes
   suppressed very early in cancer development.
   Center of Excellence Advances Ovarian Cancer Biomarker Discovery
   The earlier ovarian cancer is treated, the better a woman's chance for
   recovery. Currently, most ovarian tumors are diagnosed after they have
   advanced beyond cure, spurring researchers to look for reliable,
   minimally invasive techniques for earlier detection.
   For example, tumor markers that can be measured in blood or used in
   combination with imaging may allow health care providers to detect
   ovarian cancer sooner. Scientists in an NCI-funded Specialized Program
   of Research Excellence have conducted an extensive search for genes
   that play a role in ovarian cancer and identified a number of genes
   never before associated with this cancer. These include mesothelin,
   HE4, ESE-1, SLPIa, and GPR39.
   Scientists now are studying the molecules associated with these genes
   to determine whether they can be useful as early detection markers. If
   so, and tests can be developed to detect these markers in blood, this
   research could have a significant impact on women's ability to survive
   ovarian cancer.

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Treating Cancer

   Breast-Conserving Therapy Is At Least As Cost Effective as Mastectomy
   The choice of treatment for breast cancer depends on many factors,
   including the size and stage of the tumor, a woman's age, other medical
   conditions, and costs. In a study of nearly 1,700 breast cancer
   patients 35 and older with early-stage breast cancer, researchers
   compared the cost of care for mastectomy with that of breast-conserving
   therapy (BCT).
   At six months after diagnosis, the medical care costs associated with
   BCT were higher than for mastectomy. The cost difference disappeared
   over time, however, and by five years after surgery, the medical care
   costs of BCT were less than those for mastectomy, possibly due to the
   expenses associated with the higher complication rates of mastectomy or
   later surgical reconstruction of the breast.
   This study suggests that breast-conserving therapy is at least as
   cost-effective as mastectomy and should be weighed equally in treatment
   considerations about cost. The larger lesson, however, is that
   short-term and longer-term expenses associated with cancer care may be
   quite different, and that both considerations should inform health care
   policy decisions.
   Phase I Trials Suggest Vaccines for Lung and Colon Cancers
   Although the idea of treating cancer with a vaccine that stimulates the
   body's immune system to kill tumors is generating exciting results for
   several cancers, success with lung and colorectal cancers has been more
   elusive. Recently, scientists have taken a new approach that has
   produced promising results in a Phase I clinical trial.
   Researchers first isolated from tumor tissue a portion of
   carcinoembryonic antigen, a protein usually found only in fetal tissue
   but abundantly expressed in non-small cell lung, colon, and other
   cancer cells. They next delivered the isolated antigen to the immune
   system using an innovative method that seems to heighten the immune
   response. Researchers hoped that vaccinated patients would produce
   antibodies to attack the novel antigen and consequently the tumor cells
   that express it.
   Five of the twelve patients in the study did respond to the vaccine,
   two with dramatic tumor regression. These are promising findings for a
   Phase I trial, and if more extended clinical trials demonstrate its
   effectiveness, this approach could lead to a new therapy for lung,
   colorectal, and perhaps other cancers.

   Learn more about NCI's clinical trials.

                                                               Top of Page
   Early Hairy Cell Leukemia Trial Results In Complete Remissions
   A new immunotherapy for hairy cell leukemia, a cancer of the immune
   system, has produced impressive results in a preliminary clinical
   trial. The treatment works by using a specially designed molecule known
   as BL22 to deliver a deadly toxin directly to the hairy cell leukemia
   cells.
   Scientists made BL22 by joining portions of an endotoxin made by the
   bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa with an antibody that recognizes and
   binds to CD22, a protein found on the outside of hairy cell leukemia
   cells. BL22 is a small molecule designed to get to the tumor quickly
   and with less toxicity to the body. When BL22 reaches its target, the
   cancer cell internalizes the deadly toxin by natural mechanisms and
   dies.
   Of the 16 patients with hairy cell leukemia who participated in this
   preliminary trial, 11 experienced complete remission and another two
   partial remission after BL22 immunotherapy. These early clinical
   results show promise for BL22 treatment of hairy cell leukemia and
   other cancers that express CD22.
   Metastatic Melanoma Patients Experience Regression with Immunotherapy
   Melanoma is the most rapidly increasing cancer in the United States and
   is virtually lethal once it has spread beyond the initial site. Recent
   metastatic melanoma studies provide some of the first examples of the
   successful application of specific immunotherapy for human cancer based
   on an understanding of the molecular basis of the immune response
   against the disease.
   For example, many patients vaccinated with gp100 melanoma antigen found
   on the outside of melanoma cells, have produced immune cells that
   attack their cancer. In a preliminary trial, one-third of all
   metastatic melanoma patients experienced tumor regression when this
   vaccine was administered along with the immune stimulating cytokine,
   Interleukin-2 (IL-2). (IL-2 is produced by certain white blood cells
   and can help boost immune response.)
   Patients are experiencing substantial tumor regression in pilot studies
   of vaccination with a number of other antigens characteristic of
   melanoma cells, without the help of IL-2 or other immune boosting
   cytokines.
   In recent studies, some of the cancer attacking immune cells were
   removed from patients and allowed to increase in number in a laboratory
   culture. Transferring larger quantities of the immune cells back to the
   patient resulted in additional cancer regressions. Researchers have
   begun exploring molecular and genetic characteristics of antigens for
   breast, ovarian, prostate and lung cancers, and similar treatment
   approaches are being applied to forms of these cancers.

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Understanding Cancer and its Causes

   Tumor Growth May Be Stopped By Depriving Cancer Cells of Oxygen
   One strategy for stopping tumor growth is to selectively starve
   cancerous tissue for oxygen. Angiogenesis refers to the body's ability
   to grow new blood vessels , a process necessary for normal activities
   in the body as well as for tumor growth. If we learn how to stop this
   process, we should be able to arrest tumor growth.
   Scientists have learned that the mammalian cell uses the protein
   hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) to help turn angiogenesis on and off.
   When HIF is present, it turns on the genes that start the angiogenesis
   process. At normal levels of oxygen the cell has a mechanism that
   continuously breaks down HIF. During hypoxia, such as occurs during
   tumor growth, another mechanism makes a small change to the structure
   of HIF so that it is resistant to degradation. HIF levels increase,
   blood vessels grow, and the new tumor thrives.
   Scientists are searching for possible drugs to target the HIF oxygen
   sensing and signaling pathways to stop angiogenesis without harming
   healthy cells.
   Reversing the Silence of a Gene May Make Cancer Therapy Effective
   Neuroblastoma is the most common solid childhood tumor outside the
   brain area. Despite major advances in cancer chemotherapy and bone
   marrow transplantation, the long-term survival rate for children with
   aggressive forms of this disease remains very low.
   Cancer geneticists are working on a new treatment idea based on a
   recent finding about the gene capsase 8, which may be involved in a set
   of difficult to treat neuroblastoma cases. In these neuroblastomas,
   capsase 8 does not do its job, because it is either missing or is
   chemically altered and rendered silent by a DNA methylation process.
   Scientists found that neuroblastoma cells without capsase 8 activity
   grown in the laboratory are protected against a number of cancer
   therapy drugs directed against DNA targets.
   Researchers are now studying the possibility of using demethylation
   agents to reverse the chemistry that silences capsase 8, thus rendering
   the neuroblastoma cells susceptible to the chemotherapeutic agents.
   No Connection Found Between Cellular Telephone Use and Brain Tumors
   The use of hand-held cellular phones involves placing a small
   transmitter that emits radio frequency radiation next to the head.
   Given the unknown cancer risk posed by this radiation and the important
   public health implications, NCI scientists included cell phone use in a
   comprehensive study on the causes of brain tumors.
   Approximately 800 adult brain tumor patients and 800 controls (adults
   without brain tumors) from three medical institutions in the United
   States were questioned about their cell phone usage. Researchers found
   that regardless of years of use or number of minutes of use per day
   reported, there was no increased risk of brain tumors for cell phone
   users compared to non-users. Brain tumors also did not occur more
   frequently on the side of the head on which cell phone users reported
   holding their phone.
   While the NCI study (1994-1998) was conducted at a time when analogue
   phones were primarily used, there is no evidence at this time that
   cancer risk differs for the higher frequency digital phones more
   commonly used today.

                                                               Top of Page
   Scientists Identify Chemosensitive Gliomas
   Gliomas are malignant tumors of the brain that arise from glial cells,
   a type of cell that provides support and insulation for neurons of the
   brain. Most are quickly fatal despite treatment, but the prognosis
   depends heavily on the specific type of glioma. Patients with
   oligodendroglioma, for example, respond well to combined treatment with
   the drugs procarbazine, lomustine, and vincristine with approximately
   two-thirds experiencing long-term remissions.
   Only recently, however, have scientists begun to identify which
   patients would respond to the combined treatment. Scientists are
   learning how to predict response based on the genetic mutations present
   in the glioma tissue. For example, patients with altered portions of
   chromosome 1 and 19 tend to respond much better to chemotherapy than
   those with mutations in the genes PTEN, EGFR, and CDKN2A.
   This research will improve the ability of physicians to recommend
   appropriate treatment for patients. Patients with responsive tumors
   will increase their chances of survival when they are treated earlier.
   Other patients may be spared ineffective and toxic chemical treatments
   and offered alternative therapies.
   Racial and Ethnic Differences in Prostate Cancer Need Further Study
   The Prostate Cancer Outcomes Study is following over 3,000 men to learn
   more about the results of different therapies and their effect on
   quality of life. One recent report drawing on data from the study
   examined racial and ethnic differences found among men who developed
   advanced prostate cancer.
   Researchers found that African American men have the greatest risk of
   developing advanced disease (12.3 percent of study participants). This
   rate is higher than that of Hispanic men (10.5 percent) and about twice
   that of non-Hispanic Whites (6.3 percent). Differences in socioeconomic
   status, symptoms, and tumor characteristics seem to account for the
   differences between non-Hispanic Whites and Hispanics, but do not
   explain a significant portion of the African American disparities.
   Investigators suggested that further research on biologic markers,
   genetic susceptibility factors, and additional socioeconomic factors
   such as use of health care systems, distance from health care, diet,
   literacy, and health beliefs is needed to sufficiently describe these
   disparities.

                                                               Top of Page

Home | Site Map | FAQs | PDF | Privacy Policy | Accessibility | Contact Us
Last updated 11.15.01 (smz)

   W3C Validated

   Other U.S. Government Resources

   National Institutes of HeALT (NIH)
   Department of HeALT and Human Services
   FirstGov
       _______________________________________________________________
