http://www.oal.ca.gov/document/HowToParticipate.pdf

   HOW TO PARTICIPATE IN THE RULEMAKING PROCESS A CALIFORNIA STATE AGENCY
   MUST CONSIDER SUGGESTIONS AND OBJECTIONS FROM THE PUBLIC BEFORE IT
   ADOPTS OR CHANGES ANY REGULATION NOT EXPRESSLY EXEMPTED FROM THE
   CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT (APA). A "REGULATION" IS A
   POLICY OR PROCEDURE AFFECTING THE PUBLIC OR ANY SEGMENT OF THE PUBLIC
   THAT IMPLEMENTS, INTERPRETS, OR MAKES SPECIFIC A STATUTE THE STATE
   AGENCY ENFORCES OR ADMINISTERS. * The procedure for rulemaking
   ................................................... 2 * The California
   Code of Regulations ............................................. 2 *
   Pre-notice involvement
   ............................................................ 2 *
   Commenting on the initial proposal
   ............................................. 2 * Commenting on
   modifications to the initial proposal........................... 2 *
   Effective comments
   ................................................................. 3 *
   Standards for regulations
   ............................................................ 3 *
   Emergency regulations
   ............................................................... 3 * An
   overview of the rulemaking process
   .......................................... 3 * A delegation of
   rulemaking authority .............................................. 4 *
   Preliminary activities
   ................................................................ 4 *
   Special considerations
   ................................................................ 5 *
   Issuing the notice
   ..................................................................... 5
   * Availability of the proposed text and the initial statement of
   reasons ........ 5 * Rulemaking Graphic
   .................................................................. 6 *
   The 45 day comment period
   ......................................................... 8 * The
   public hearing
   ..................................................................... 8
   * Consideration of public input on the initial proposal
   ............................. 8 * Assessing the nature of modifications
   to the initial proposal .................... 8 * Making changes
   available for public comment .................................... 8 *
   Opportunity for public comment based upon new material relied upon
   ....... 9 * Summary and response to comments
   ............................................... 9 * Submission of a
   rulemaking action to OAL for review .......................... 9 * What
   must be adopted pursuant to the APA?
   ...................................... 10 * Express statutory
   exemptions are found in the APA and in other statutes ..... 14 * OAL
   review for compliance with the Authority and Reference Standards .....
   16 * Express and implied rulemaking authority
   ........................................ 17 * OAL review for Authority
   ........................................................... 17 *
   Judicial review of authority to adopt a particular regulation
   .................... 18 * OAL review for compliance with the
   Consistency standard .................... 19 * OAL review for
   compliance with the Clarity standard ........................ 19 * OAL
   review for compliance with the Nonduplication standard ..............
   21 * OAL review for compliance with the Necessity standard
   ..................... 22 * Citations
   .......................................................................
   ....... 24 HowToParticipate 7/31/01 1 THE PROCEDURE FOR RULEMAKING
   Every department, division, office, officer, bureau, board or
   commission in the executive branch of California state government must
   follow the rulemaking procedures in the Administrative Procedure Act
   (Government Code § 11340; http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/calaw.htm) and in
   the regulations adopted by the Office of Administrative Law (OAL)
   (California Code of Regulations, Title 1, §§ 1-90;
   http://ccr.oal.ca.gov/) unless expressly exempted by statute from some
   or all of these requirements. A publication reprinting the California
   statutes and regulations governing rulemaking under the California
   Administrative Procedure Act is available from OAL for a nominal fee.
   The checklists used by OAL in its review of regulation filings are
   available online at the following location.
   http://www.oal.ca.gov/rulemaking.htm THE CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS
   Regulations are printed in the California Code of Regulations after
   they are adopted by the rulemaking agency and approved by OAL. You may
   access regulations in the California Code of Regulations at the
   following location. http://ccr.oal.ca.gov/ PRE-NOTICE INVOLVEMENT An
   agency may involve the public in workshops or other preliminary
   activities well before the start of the formal rulemaking process. You
   will find a listing of rulemaking actions anticipated by an agency for
   a calendar year in the Rulemaking Calendar along with the name of a
   contact. http://www.oal.ca.gov Also, agency websites often provide
   information on upcoming rulemaking actions. For websites, go to the
   State Agency Index under "Quick Hits" at: http://www.ca.gov COMMENTING
   ON THE INITIAL PROPOSAL A 45 day opportunity to submit written, faxed,
   or e-mail comments on all or any part of a proposed rulemaking action
   starts when the notice of proposed rulemaking is published in the
   California Regulatory Notice Register. The Notice Register may be
   accessed online at the following location.
   http://www.oal.ca.gov/notice.htm The notice of proposed rulemaking is
   also mailed to those who have asked to be on the agency's notice
   mailing list, and is posted on the rulemaking agency's website. The
   notice tells you how to obtain access to the proposed regulation text
   and the initial statement of reasons and who to call if you have
   questions. The notice may also schedule a public hearing at which you
   may comment on the proposal orally and/or in writing. COMMENTING ON
   MODIFICATIONS TO THE INITIAL PROPOSAL You will receive a notice of any
   15 day opportunity to comment (1) on proposed modifications or (2) new
   material relied upon if you commented on the initial HowToParticipate
   7/31/01 2 proposal or have requested such notice. The rulemaking agency
   also posts a copy of the notice of opportunity to comment on proposed
   modifications on its website. EFFECTIVE COMMENTS Effective comments are
   based on an understanding of the statutes and factual material the
   agency relies on in proposing the regulation, on an understanding of
   what the proposed regulation is intended to do, and on an understanding
   of the standards the regulation must satisfy. The Authority and
   Reference citations that follow the text of each regulation section
   identify the statutes on which the section is based. The initial
   statement of reasons identifies the purpose and rationale of each
   regulation and identifies the factual material upon which the agency
   relies in proposing it. The response to comments in the final statement
   of reasons must demonstrate that each relevant, timely comment has been
   considered. STANDARDS FOR REGULATIONS A regulation must be easily
   understandable, have a rationale, and be the least burdensome,
   effective alternative. A regulation cannot alter, amend, enlarge, or
   restrict a statute, or be inconsistent or in conflict with a statute.
   EMERGENCY REGULATIONS A state agency may adopt an emergency regulation
   anytime it can demonstrate an immediate need for a regulation to
   protect the public peace, health and safety, or general welfare, or if
   a statute deems the regulation to be an emergency for purposes of the
   APA. The public may comment directly to OAL on emergency regulations
   within 5 days after the regulation is submitted to OAL for review. OAL
   has up to 10 calendar days to review and emergency regulation. You will
   find additional information about emergency regulations and how to
   comment on them at the following location.
   http://www.oal.ca.gov/emergency.htm OAL reviews emergency regulations
   to determine whether an emergency has been demonstrated, or deemed by
   statute and whether the regulation satisfies the Authority, Reference,
   Consistency, Clarity, Nonduplication, and Necessity standards. Once
   approved, an emergency regulation remains in effect for 120 days,
   during which time the rulemaking agency is to conduct the rulemaking
   process to permanently adopt the regulation. If, however, the agency is
   unable to complete the rulemaking process within that time, the agency
   may obtain permission from OAL to readopt the emergency regulation for
   another 120 days. AN OVERVIEW OF THE RULEMAKING PROCESS Administrative
   Procedure Act requirements are designed to provide the public with a
   meaningful opportunity to HowToParticipate 7/31/01 3 participate in the
   adoption of regulations by California state agencies and to ensure the
   creation of an adequate record for the public and for OAL and judicial
   review. Every California state agency must satisfy the basic minimum
   procedural requirements established by the APA for the adoption,
   amendment or repeal of an administrative regulation unless the agency
   is expressly exempted by statute. (Graphic on pages 6 and 7 illustrates
   the rulemaking process.) A DELEGATION OF RULEMAKING AUTHORITY How can a
   state agency in the executive branch adopt rules and regulations that
   have the force of law? The California Constitution separates the powers
   of the state government into legislative, executive, and judicial
   powers, and provides that persons charged with the exercise of one
   power may not exercise either of the others except as permitted by the
   Constitution. The Constitution also vests the legislative power of the
   State in the Legislature, but reserves to the people the powers of
   initiative and referendum. (In the graphic on page 6, the scroll in the
   upper left corner represents the California Constitution.) California
   courts have long recognized that under the Constitution the Legislature
   may by statute delegate quasi-legislative powers to a state agency in
   the executive branch, so long as adequate standards are provided to
   guide the agency. The adequacy of such a delegation is virtually never
   an issue in a rulemaking because all state agencies, including OAL,
   must presume that any California statute, including one delegating
   rulemaking authority, is constitutional unless an appellate court has
   made a determination to the contrary. California Constitution, Article
   3, Section 3.5. Thus every rulemaking action must be based upon a
   statutory delegation of rulemaking authority from the Legislature to a
   state agency. PRELIMINARY ACTIVITIES What does a state agency do once
   it decides to conduct a rulemaking action? It makes the decisions and
   develops the documents required to conduct a formal APA rulemaking
   proceeding. Some agencies involve the public during this stage. Others
   do not. The APA provides that an agency must engage in pre-notice
   public discussions regarding complex proposals or large proposals. A
   decision to engage or not engage in such discussions, however, is not
   subject to review by OAL or the courts. The agency develops four
   documents during the preliminary activity stage, which are needed to
   initiate the formal rulemaking process: the express terms of the
   proposed regulation (the proposed text), the initial statement of
   reasons, the STD 399 Fiscal Impact Statement, and the notice of
   proposed rulemaking. HowToParticipate 7/31/01 4 SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS
   The APA requires a rulemaking agency to make specified determinations
   and findings with regard to a proposed action. * An agency must find
   that no alternative would be more effective in carrying out the purpose
   for which a regulation is proposed or would be as effective and less
   burdensome to affected private persons than the adopted regulation. * A
   rulemaking agency must determine whether the regulation "may have," or
   "will not have" a significant, statewide adverse impact directly
   affecting business. The agency must solicit alternatives if it "may
   have." * A rulemaking agency must describe the potential cost impact of
   a regulation on a representative private person or business, if known.
   * A rulemaking agency must assess whether and to what extent the
   regulation will create or eliminate jobs and businesses. A rulemaking
   agency must find that any business reporting requirement is necessary
   for the public health, safety, or welfare. * A rulemaking agency must
   consider the substitution of performance standards for prescriptive
   standards. * A rulemaking agency must state whether a regulation
   affects small business. * A rulemaking agency must state whether a
   regulation differs from a federal statute or regulation and avoid
   unnecessary duplication or conflict. * If a rulemaking agency makes a
   determination regarding significant effect on housing costs it must
   include the determination in the notice. ISSUING THE NOTICE To initiate
   a rulemaking action, an agency issues a notice of a proposed rulemaking
   by having the notice published in the California Regulatory Notice
   Register, by mailing the notice to those persons who have filed a
   request for notice of regulatory actions, and by posting the notice,
   text, and statement of reasons on its website, if it has one. Once the
   notice is issued, the APA rulemaking process is officially under way.
   AVAILABILITY OF THE PROPOSED TEXT AND THE INITIAL STATEMENT OF REASONS
   To provide a meaningful opportunity for public participation, a
   rulemaking agency must make the proposed text and the initial statement
   of reasons available. Often an agency will mail not only the notice of
   proposed rulemaking to interested persons (the minimum required by the
   APA), but also the proposed text and the initial statement of reasons.
   Agencies that have websites must make all three documents available
   there. Some agencies, without websites, make the proposed text and the
   initial statement of reasons available only on request to the agency
   contact person identified in the notice. HowToParticipate 7/31/01 5
   LEGISLATURE GRANTS AUTHORITY TO ADOPT REGULATIONS TO STATE AGENCY State
   agency PRELIMINARY ACTIVITIES Special Considerations Fiscal Impact
   NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING INITIAL STATEMENT OF REASONS R U L E M A
   K I N G R E C O R D O P E N TEXT OF REGULATIONS PUBLISHES & ISSUES
   Minimum 45 NOTICE day public comment period PUBLIC HEARING AGENCY HOLDS
   PUBLIC HEARING AS SCHEDULED OR AGENCY BY REQUEST CONSIDERS COMMENTS
   CHANGES MADE TO FINAL STATEMENT OF REASONS REGULATION S? non- SUMMARY &
   substantial & substantial RESPONSE TO sufficiently related or no Major
   COMMENTS: changes Changes: New 45 day Changed to accommodate notice 15
   Day-Comment Period; Reason for rejection Agency mails Notice of
   Proposed Changes A g e n c y a d o p t s r e g u l a t i o n R U L E M
   A K I N G R E C O R D C L O S E D howtoparticipate 7/26/01 6 OAL REVIEW
   State agency must submit rulemaking record within 1 A P A S T A N D A R
   D S: year of notice publication OAL has 30 WORKING days A U T H O R I T
   Y to review a regulation R E F E R E N C E C O N S I S T E N C Y DAY C
   L A R I T Y 1 N O N  D U P L I C A T I O N N E C E S S I T Y DAY 30 &
   PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS DOES THE RULEMAKING SATISFY THE APA? YES NO OAL
   Files Regulation OAL returns Publishes regulation with printed in
   regulation to disapproval in Notice Secretary of State California
   Register and agency Code of California Code of USUALLY Regulations
   Regulations EFFECTIVE IN Decisions 30 DAYS Agency revises text; does 15
   -day notice; & resubmits APPEALS TO to OAL w/in 120 THE days NEW
   GOVERNOR PUBLIC NOTICE howtoparticipate 7/26/01 7 THE 45 DAY COMMENT
   PERIOD The APA requires, at minimum, a 45 day opportunity to comment in
   writing, by fax, or e-mail on the regulation changes as initially
   proposed by the agency. The notice of proposed rulemaking specifies
   where the comments must be directed and when this opportunity to
   comment in writing on the initial proposal closes. THE PUBLIC HEARING
   Under the APA, an agency has an option as to whether it wishes to hold
   a public hearing on a proposed rulemaking action. (An agency's enabling
   statutes may eliminate this option by requiring a public hearing.)
   However, if an agency doesn't schedule a public hearing, and any
   interested person submits a written request for one within 15 days
   prior to the close of the written comment period, the agency must give
   notice of, and hold a public hearing. Because of this requirement, a
   rulemaking agency usually schedules a public hearing unless it is
   confident that one will not be requested. CONSIDERATION OF PUBLIC INPUT
   ON THE INITIAL PROPOSAL The APA requires a rulemaking agency to
   consider all relevant matter presented to it during a comment period
   before adopting, amending, or repealing any regulation. ASSESSING THE
   NATURE OF MODIFICATIONS TO THE INITIAL PROPOSAL After the initial
   public comment period, a rulemaking agency will often decide to change
   its initial proposal either in response to public comments or on its
   own. The agency must then decide whether a change is: (1)
   nonsubstantial, (2) substantial and sufficiently related, or (3)
   substantial and not sufficiently related. MAKING CHANGES AVAILABLE FOR
   PUBLIC COMMENT The APA provides that a rulemaking agency must make each
   substantial, sufficiently related change to its initial proposal
   available for public comment for at least 15 days before adopting such
   a change. Thus, before a rulemaking agency adopts such a change, it
   must mail a notice of opportunity to comment on proposed changes along
   with a copy of the text of the proposed changes to each person who has
   submitted written comments on the proposal, testified at the public
   hearing, or asked to receive a notice of proposed modification. The
   agency must also post the notice on its website. No public hearing is
   required. The public may comment on the proposed modifications in
   writing. The agency must then consider comments received during the
   comment period, which are directed at the proposed changes. An agency
   may conduct more than one 15 day opportunity to comment on a large,
   complicated, or sensitive rulemaking action before the final version is
   adopted. howtoparticipate 7/26/01 8 OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
   BASED UPON NEW MATERIAL RELIED UPON A rulemaking agency must
   specifically identify in the initial statement of reasons and include
   in the rulemaking record the material it relies upon in proposing a
   rulemaking action. If during a rulemaking proceeding an agency decides
   to rely on material that it did not identify in the initial statement
   of reasons or otherwise identify or make available for public review
   prior to the close of the public comment period, the agency must make
   the document available for comment for 15 days. SUMMARY AND RESPONSE TO
   COMMENTS A rulemaking agency must summarize and respond on the record
   to timely comments that are directed at the rulemaking proposal or at
   the procedures followed. The summary and response to comment
   demonstrates that the agency has understood and considered all relevant
   material presented to it before adopting, amending, or repealing a
   regulation. An agency may respond to a comment in one of two ways. The
   agency must either (1) explain how it has amended the proposal to
   accommodate the comment, or (2) explain the reasons for making no
   change to the proposal. An agency's summary and response to comments is
   included as part of the final statement of reasons. SUBMISSION OF A
   RULEMAKING ACTION TO OAL FOR REVIEW A rulemaking agency must transmit a
   rulemaking action to OAL for review within a year from the date that
   the notice of proposed rulemaking action was published in the
   California Regulatory Notice Register. OAL then has 30 working days in
   which to review the rulemaking record to determine whether it
   demonstrates that the rulemaking agency satisfied the procedural
   requirements of the APA, and to review regulations for compliance with
   the six standards: Authority, Reference, Consistency, Clarity,
   Nonduplication, and Necessity. OAL may not substitute its judgment for
   that of the rulemaking agency with regard to the substantive content of
   the regulations. howtoparticipate 7/26/01 9 WHAT MUST BE ADOPTED
   PURSUANT TO THE APA? Not every statute requires the adoption of an
   implementing regulation. In this regard, it is useful to think about
   three types of statutory provisions:
   self-executing--wholly-enabling--susceptible to interpretation. A
   self-executing provision is so specific that no implementing or
   interpreting regulation is necessary to give it effect. An example is a
   statutory provision that provides: "The annual licensing fee is $500."
   In contrast, a wholly-enabling statutory provision is one that has no
   legal effect without the enactment of a regulation. An example is a
   statute that provides: "The department may set an annual licensing fee
   up to $500." This type of statute cannot be legally enforced without a
   regulation setting the fee. The third type, a statutory provision that
   is susceptible to interpretation, may be enforced without a regulation,
   but may need a regulation for its efficient enforcement. An example is
   a statute that provides: "There shall be adequate space between
   hospital beds." Conceptually, this statute could be enforced on a
   case-by-case basis, but such enforcement would probably present
   significant difficulties. (It does not violate the APA to enforce or
   administer a statute on a case-by-case basis so long as no rule or
   standard of general application is used that should have been adopted
   pursuant to the APA.) howtoparticipate 7/26/01 10 Every "regulation" is
   subject to the rulemaking procedures of the APA unless expressly
   exempted by statute. Government Code Section 11346 IT'S MANDATORY
   Compliance with the rulemaking requirements of the Administrative
   Procedure Act is mandatory. (Armistead v. State Personnel Board.) All
   regulations are subject to the APA, unless expressly exempted by
   statute. (Engelmann v. State Board of Education.) Any doubt as to the
   app- licability of the APA should be resolved in favor of the APA.
   (Grier v. Kizer.) If a rule looks like a regulation, reads like a
   regulation, and acts like a regulation, it will be treated by the
   courts as a regulation whether or not the issuing agency so labeled it.
   (SWRCB v. OAL.) "Regulation" means every rule, regulation, order, or
   standard of general application or the amendment, supplement, or
   revision of any rule, regulation, order or standard adopted by any
   state agency to implement, interpret, or make specific the law enforced
   or administered by it, or to govern its procedure. Government Code
   section 11342.600 A GENERAL RULE A standard or procedure of general
   application (general rule) is a standard or procedure that applies to
   an open class. An open class is one whose membership could change. This
   broad definition includes many classes of rules that are exempt from
   notice and comment under the federal Administrative Procedure Act. THE
   PROHIBITION The APA specifically prohibits any state agency from making
   any use of a state agency rule which is a "regulation" as defined in
   Government Code section 11342.600, that should have, but has not been
   adopted pursuant to the APA (unless expressly exempted by statute). No
   state agency shall issue, utilize, enforce, or attempt to enforce any
   guideline, criterion, bulletin, manual, instruction, order, standard of
   general application, or other rule, which is a "regulation" under the
   APA unless it has been adopted as a regulation and filed with the
   Secretary of State pursuant to the APA. Government Code section
   11340.5(a) howtoparticipate 7/26/01 11 ARMISTEAD V. STATE PERSONNEL
   BOARD In 1978, the California Supreme Court made it clear that
   compliance with the rulemaking requirements of the Administrative
   Procedure Act is mandatory. (Armistead v. State Personnel Board.) In
   doing so, the court quoted a 1955 legislative report finding that
   noncompliance with APA rulemaking requirements was common. "The
   committee is compelled to report to the Legislature that it has found
   many agencies which avoid the mandatory requirements of the
   Administrative Procedure Act of public notice, opportunity to be heard
   by the public, filing with the Secretary of State, and publication in
   the Administrative Code. "The committee has found that some agencies
   did not follow the act's requirements because they were not aware of
   them; some agencies do not follow the act's requirements because they
   believe they are exempt; at least one agency did not follow the act
   because it was too busy; some agencies feel the act's requirements
   prevent them from administering the laws required to be administered by
   them; and many agencies . . . believe the function being performed was
   not in the realm of quasi-legislative powers. "The manner of avoidance
   takes many forms, depending on the size of the agency and the type of
   law being administered, but they can all be briefly described as 'house
   rules' of the agency. "They consist of rules of the agency, denominated
   variedly as 'policies,' 'interpretations,' 'instructions,' 'guides,'
   'standards,' or the like, and are contained in internal organs of the
   agency such as manuals, memoranda, bulletins, or are directed to the
   public in the form of circulars or bulletins." [First Report of the
   Senate Interim Committee on Administrative Regulations (1955) as cited
   in Armistead, p. 205.] howtoparticipate 7/26/01 12 HOW TO DETERMINE
   WHETHER AGENCY'S POLICY OR PROCEDURE SHOULD BE ADOPTED PURSUANT TO THE
   APA Preliminarily determine whether the particular policy or procedure
   is already set out in an applicable statute or duly adopted regulation.
   (Generally, duly adopted regulations are printed in the California Code
   of Regulations.) The adoption of a policy or procedure as a
   "regulation" pursuant to the APA is not required if you find the
   specific policy or procedure in an applicable statute or duly adopted
   regulation. If you determine that the policy or procedure (i.e., rule)
   is not set out in an applicable statute or duly adopted regulation, use
   the following three-step analysis to determine whether the policy or
   procedure must be adopted as a regulation pursuant to the requirements
   and procedures of the APA: First, is the policy or procedure either: *
   a rule or standard of general application, or * a modification or
   supplement to such a rule? Second, has the policy or procedure been
   adopted by the agency to either: * implement, interpret, or make
   specific the law enforced or administered by the agency, or * govern
   the agency's procedure? Third, has the policy or procedure been
   expressly exempted by statute from the requirement that it be adopted
   as a "regulation" pursuant to the APA? If the policy or procedure
   satisfies steps one and two, then it is a "regulation" as defined in
   the APA and must be adopted pursuant to the APA unless it falls within
   an express statutory exemption from the requirements of the APA.
   Generally, all "regulations" issued by state agencies are required to
   be adopted pursuant to the APA, unless expressly exempted by statute.
   (Government Code section 11346.) If the policy or procedure does not
   fall within an express statutory exemption, then it is subject to the
   rulemaking requirements of the APA. howtoparticipate 7/26/01 13 EXPRESS
   STATUTORY EXEMPTIONS ARE FOUND IN THE APA AND IN OTHER STATUTES. THE
   FOLLOWING ARE SOME OF THE EXPRESS EXEMPTIONS SET OUT IN THE APA. *
   INTERNAL MANAGEMENT: "A regulation that relates only to the internal
   management of the state agency." (Government Code Section 11340.9(d).)
   The internal management exception to the APA is narrow. A regulation is
   exempt as internal management if it: (1) directly affects only the
   employees of the issuing agency, and (2) does not address a matter of
   serious consequence involving an important public interest. (Armistead,
   Stoneham, Poschman, and Grier.) * FORMS: "A form prescribed by a state
   agency or any instructions relating to the use of the form, but this
   provision is not a limitation on any requirement that a regulation be
   adopted pursuant to this chapter when one is needed to implement the
   law under which the form is issued." (Government Code Section
   11340.9(c).) This legislative language creates a limited statutory
   exemption relating to forms. A regulation is not needed if the form's
   contents consist only of existing, specific legal requirements. By
   contrast, if an agency adds any language which satisfies the definition
   of "regulation" to the existing legal requirements, then, under
   Government Code section 11340.9(c), a formal regulation is "needed to
   implement the law under which the form is issued." Section 11340.9(c)
   cannot be interpreted as permitting state agencies to avoid mandatory
   APA rulemaking requirements by simply typing regulatory language into a
   form because this interpretation would allow state agencies to ignore
   the APA at will. * AUDIT GUIDELINES: "A regulation that establishes
   criteria or guidelines to be used by the staff of an agency in
   performing an audit, investigation, examination, or inspection,
   settling a commercial dispute, negotiating a commercial arrangement, or
   in the defense, prosecution, or settlement of a case, if disclosure of
   the criteria or guidelines would do any of the following:
   howtoparticipate 7/26/01 14 "(1) Enable a law violator to avoid
   detection. "(2) Facilitate disregard of requirements imposed by law.
   "(3) Give clearly improper advantage to a person who is in an adverse
   position to the state." (Government Code Section 11340.9(e).) * ONLY
   LEGALLY TENABLE INTERPRETATION: "A regulation that embodies the only
   legally tenable interpretation of a provision of law." (Government Code
   Section 11340.9(f).) * RATE, PRICE, TARIFF: "A regulation that
   establishes or fixes rates, prices, or tariffs." (Government Code
   Section 11340.9(g).) * LEGAL RULING OF TAX COUNSEL: "A legal ruling of
   counsel issued by the Franchise Tax Board or State Board of
   Equalization." (Government Code Section 11340.9(b).) * PRECEDENT
   DECISION: A quasi-judicial decision by a state agency that is
   designated pursuant to Government Code Section 11425.60 as a precedent
   decision is expressly exempt from being adopted as a "regulation"
   pursuant to the APA. howtoparticipate 7/26/01 15
   AUTHORITY-REFERENCE-CONSISTENCY CLARITY-NONDUPLICATION-NECESSITY OAL
   REVIEW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE AUTHORITY AND REFERENCE STANDARDS Each
   regulation must satisfy the Authority and Reference standards.
   Complying with the Authority and Reference standards involves a
   rulemaking agency in two activities: picking appropriate Authority and
   Reference citations for the note that follows each regulation section
   to be printed in the California Code of Regulations, and adopting a
   regulation that is within the scope of the rulemaking power conferred
   on the agency. "Authority" means the provision of law which permits or
   obligates the agency to adopt, amend, or repeal a regulation.
   Government Code Section 11349(b). "Reference" means the statute, court
   decision, or other provision of law which the agency implements,
   interprets, or makes specific by adopting, amending, or repealing a
   regulation. Government Code Section 11349(e). Each regulation section
   printed in the California Code of Regulations must have a citation to
   the specific statutory authority under which it was enacted and a
   citation to the specific statute or other provision of law that the
   regulation is implementing, interpreting, or making specific. As an
   example the Authority and Reference Citations for Section 55 of Title 1
   of the California Code of Regulations reads as follows: "Authority
   cited: Sections 11342.4 and 11349.1, Government Code. Reference:
   Sections 11346.1, 11349.1, 11349.3 and 11349.6, Government Code." The
   statutes and other provisions of law cited in Authority and Reference
   notes are the agency's interpretation of its power to adopt a
   particular regulation. A rulemaking agency initially selects Authority
   and Reference citations when it is drafting the proposed regulation
   text and may revise and refine the citations during howtoparticipate
   7/26/01 16 the course of a rulemaking proceeding. The goal is to have
   accurate, precise, and complete Authority and Reference citations
   printed in the California Code of Regulations with each regulation.
   EXPRESS AND IMPLIED RULEMAKING AUTHORITY A statutory delegation of
   rulemaking authority may be either express or implied. In an express
   delegation, the statute expressly states that the state agency may or
   shall "adopt rules and regulations necessary to carry out this chapter"
   or some variation on that phrase. Thus, an express delegation expressly
   specifies that regulations shall or may be adopted by the agency. In
   contrast, in an implied delegation of rulemaking authority, the
   applicable statutes do not expressly state that the agency may or shall
   adopt rules or regulations. Instead, a statute expressly gives a duty
   or power to a specified state agency, but makes no express mention of
   the authority to adopt rules or regulations. In similar circumstances,
   courts tell us that agencies which have expressly been given a duty or
   power by statute have implicitly been delegated the authority to adopt
   those rules and regulations necessary for the due and efficient
   exercise of a duty or power expressly granted. OAL REVIEW FOR AUTHORITY
   OAL reviews Each regulation adopted, to be regulations to ensure that
   effective, shall be within the scope of they are authorized under
   authority conferred and in accordance controlling statutes. The with
   standards prescribed by other statutes (and other provisions of law.
   provisions of law) the Government Code Section 11342.1. agency cites as
   Authority and Reference identify the sources of the rulemaking power
   that the agency is drawing on in promulgating a particular regulation.
   A regulation that is not within the scope of an agency's express or
   implied rulemaking authority is void and cannot become effective. In
   determining whether a rulemaking agency is empowered to adopt a
   particular regulation, OAL applies the same analytical approach
   employed by the California Supreme Court and the California Court of
   Appeal, as evidenced in published opinions of those courts.
   howtoparticipate 7/26/01 17 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF AUTHORITY TO ADOPT A
   PARTICULAR REGULATION When reviewing a quasi-legislative regulation,
   courts consider whether the regulation is within the scope of the
   authority conferred, essentially a question of the validity of an
   agency's statutory interpretation. The courts must determine whether
   the rulemaking agency has exercised its authority within the bounds
   established by statute. Whenever by the express or implied terms of any
   statute a state agency has authority to adopt regulations to implement,
   interpret, make specific or otherwise carry out the provisions of the
   statute, no regulation adopted is valid or effective unless consistent
   and not in conflict with the statute and reasonably necessary to
   effectuate the purpose of the statute. Government Code Section 11342.2.
   The courts apply the following principle to determine whether a
   rulemaking agency has exercised its authority within the bounds
   established by statute. An administrative regulation may not alter or
   amend a statute or enlarge or impair its scope. Such a regulation is
   void and must be struck down by a court. In deciding whether a
   regulation alters, amends, enlarges, or restricts a statute, or merely
   implements, interprets, makes specific, or otherwise gives effect to a
   statute often a court must interpret the meaning of the statute. In so
   doing, courts apply principles of statutory interpretation developed
   primarily in case law. It examines the language of the statute, and may
   consider appropriate legislative history materials to ascertain the
   will of the Legislature so as to effectuate the purpose of the statute.
   In making this determination, a court may consider, but is not bound by
   the rulemaking agency's interpretation of the statute at issue. As the
   California Supreme Court explained in Yamaha v State Board of
   Equalization, "Whether judicial deference to an agency's interpretation
   is appropriate and, if so, its extent- the 'weight' it should be given
   is ... fundamentally situational." The court identified factors to be
   considered relating to (1) the possible interpretive advantage of the
   agency and (2) to the likelihood that the agency is correct and
   suggested the following. "The deference due an agency interpretation
   ... 'will depend upon the howtoparticipate 7/26/01 18 thoroughness
   evident in its consideration, the validity of its reasoning, its
   consistency with earlier and later pronouncements, and all those
   factors which give it power to persuade, if lacking power to control.'"
   OAL REVIEW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE CONSISTENCY STANDARD Each regulation
   must satisfy the Consistency standard. In reviewing for compliance with
   the Consistency standard, OAL uses the same analytical approach used in
   judicial review of a regulation. This approach includes the principles
   discussed above regarding deference to an agency's interpretation of a
   statute. "Consistency" means being in harmony with, and not in conflict
   with or contradictory to, existing statutes, court decisions, or other
   provisions of law. Government Code, Section 11349(d). Commenters on
   proposed regulations often comment that a proposed regulation is
   inconsistent with a statute because it requires certain tasks not
   specifically set out in statute. This situation does not present a
   Consistency problem so long as the tasks specified in the regulation
   are reasonably designed to aid a statutory objective, do not conflict
   with or contradict (or alter, amend, enlarge or restrict) any statutory
   provision. In other words, no conflict is presented if the statute says
   "Thou shall do A" and the regulation says "Thou shall do B," if one can
   do both A and B, and B is reasonably necessary to effectuate the
   purpose of A, and does not alter, amend, enlarge, or restrict A. In
   contrast, a conflict is presented if the statute says "Thou shall do A"
   and the regulation says "Thou shall not do A." OAL REVIEW FOR
   COMPLIANCE WITH THE CLARITY STANDARD Each regulation must satisfy the
   Clarity standard. Regulations are frequently unclear and unnecessarily
   complex, even when the technical nature of the subject matter is taken
   into account. They are often confusing to persons who must comply with
   them. The performance goal for drafting a regulation is the following.
   A rulemaking agency must draft regulation text in plain,
   straightforward language avoiding technical terms as much as possible
   using howtoparticipate 7/26/01 19 coherent and easily readable
   language. The measure of compliance with the performance goal is the
   Clarity standard. OAL has a duty to ensure that each regulation can be
   easily understood. Clarity means written or displayed so that the
   meaning of regulations will be easily understood by those persons
   directly affected by them. Government Code Sec. 11349(c). Persons
   presumed to be "directly affected" by a regulation are those who: (a)
   must comply with the regulation; or (b) must enforce the regulation; or
   (c) derive a benefit from the enforcement of the regulation that is not
   common to the public in general; or (d) incur from the enforcement of
   the regulation a detriment that is not common to the public in general.
   California Code of Regulations, Title 1, Sec. 16(b). Situations in
   which OAL may presume a regulation is unclear. 1. The regulation has
   more than one meaning. 2. The language of the regulation conflicts with
   the description of its effect. 3. The regulation uses an undefined term
   which does not have a meaning generally familiar to those who are
   "directly affected." 4. The regulation uses language incorrectly,
   including incorrect spelling, grammar, or punctuation. 5. The
   regulation presents information in a format not readily understandable.
   6. The regulation does not use citations which clearly identify
   published material cited in the regulation. howtoparticipate 7/26/01 20
   The following regulation drafting tips are drawn from Drafting
   Legislation and Rules in Plain English, by Robert J. Martineau, (West,
   1991) pp 65-105. 1. Use only necessary words. 2. Use common words. 3.
   Avoid lawyerisms. 4. Be consistent. 5. Use short sentences. 6. Arrange
   words properly. 7. Tabulate to simplify. 9. Look for omissions and
   ambiguities. 10. Think through common application situations. OAL
   REVIEW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE NONDUPLICATION STANDARD Nonduplication
   means a regulation does not serve the same purpose as a state or
   federal statute or another regulation. Government Code Section 11349(f)
   Each regulation must satisfy the Nonduplication standard. A regulation
   that repeats or rephrases a statute or regulation "serves the same
   purpose" as that statute or regulation. Any overlapped or duplicated
   statute or regulation must be identified and the overlap or duplication
   must be justified. Citing the overlapped or duplicated statute or
   regulation in the authority or reference note satisfies the
   identification requirement. Overlap or duplication is justified if
   information in the rulemaking record establishes that the overlap or
   duplication is necessary to satisfy the Clarity standard.
   howtoparticipate 7/26/01 21 OAL REVIEW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE
   NECESSITY STANDARD An agency conducting a rulemaking action under the
   APA must compile a complete record of a rulemaking proceeding including
   all of the evidence and other material upon which a regulation is
   based. In the record of the rulemaking proceeding (record), the agency
   must state the specific purpose of each regulatory provision and
   explain why the provision is reasonably necessary to accomplish that
   purpose. It must also identify and include in the record any materials
   relied upon in proposing the provision and any other information,
   statement, report, or data the agency is required by law to consider or
   prepare in connection with the rulemaking action. The agency does this
   first in the initial statement of reasons. During the rulemaking
   proceeding, the agency may add new material on which it relies by
   notifying the public and providing a 15 day opportunity to comment on
   the proposal in light of the new material relied upon. The agency then
   states in the final statement of reasons what material has been added
   during the proceeding. In addition, during the rulemaking, the public
   may submit recommendations or objections to the proposed regulation and
   submit material, including studies, reports, data, etc. for
   consideration by the agency and inclusion in the record. In the final
   statement of reasons, the agency must respond to all relevant input and
   explain a reason for rejecting each recommendation or objection
   directed at the proposed action, or explain how the proposal has been
   amended to accommodate the input. All of these materials constitute the
   record. At the end of a rulemaking proceeding, the rulemaking agency
   must certify under penalty of perjury that the rulemaking record is
   complete and closed. The rulemaking agency then submits the complete
   record to OAL for review. In reviewing for compliance with the
   Necessity standard, OAL is limited to applicable provisions of law and
   the record of the rulemaking proceeding. Once OAL review is complete
   and the record is returned to the rulemaking agency, the file is the
   agency's permanent record of the rulemaking proceeding. No item in the
   file may be removed, altered or destroyed. Any judicial review of the
   regulation is based only on the evidence included in the rulemaking
   record. howtoparticipate 7/26/01 22 What must be addressed in the
   record? Each regulation must satisfy the Necessity standard. OAL
   reviews the rulemaking record to ensure that each provision of
   regulation text that is adopted, amended, or repealed satisfies the
   Necessity standard. "Necessity" means the record of the rulemaking
   proceeding demonstrates by substantial evidence the need for a
   regulation to effectuate the purpose of the statute, court decision, or
   other provision of law that the regulation implements, interprets, or
   makes specific taking into account the totality of the record. For
   purposes of this standard, evidence includes, but is not limited to
   facts, studies, and expert opinion. Government Code Section 11349(a).
   What is "substantial evidence"? The "substantial evidence" standard
   used by OAL is the same as the "substantial evidence" standard used in
   judicial review of regulations. The following is a definition of
   "substantial evidence" drawn from the legislative history of the
   Necessity standard. Such evidence as a reasonable person reasoning from
   the evidence would accept as adequate to support a conclusion. A number
   of principles and limitations are involved in the application of this
   standard. Clearly, "substantial evidence" is more than "any evidence,"
   but is nowhere near "proof beyond a reasonable doubt." A key
   characteristic of the standard is its deferential nature. The
   "substantial evidence" test was added to the Necessity standard by
   Chapter 1573, Statutes of 1982 (AB 2820). The following letter from
   Assemblyman Leo McCarthy to Speaker Willie Brown summarized the
   "substantial evidence" test as used in the Necessity standard: "The
   principal addition AB 2820 makes to what we approved in AB 1111 in 1979
   is a specific level of evidence that an agency must meet to demonstrate
   the need for a particular regulation. The standard is substantial
   evidence taking the record as a whole into account. "That standard is a
   familiar one in the law and has been given a definite interpretation by
   the courts in the past. Our intent is that an agency must include in
   the record facts, studies or testimony that are specific, relevant,
   reasonable, howtoparticipate 7/26/01 23 credible and of solid value,
   that together with those inferences that can rationally be drawn from
   such facts, studies or testimony, would lead a reasonable mind to
   accept as sufficient support for the conclusion that the particular
   regulation is necessary. Suspicion, surmises, speculation, feelings, or
   incredible evidence is not substantial. "Such a standard permits
   necessity to be demonstrated even if another decision could also be
   reached. This standard does not mean that the particular regulation
   necessarily be 'right' or the best decision given the evidence in the
   record, but that it be a reasonable and rational choice. It does not
   mean that the only decision permitted is one that OAL or a court would
   make if they were making the initial decision. It does not negate the
   function of an agency to choose between two conflicting, supportable
   views. "The proposed standard requires the assessment to determine
   necessity to be made taking into account the totality of the record.
   That means the standard is not satisfied simply by isolating those
   facts that support the conclusion of the agency. Whatever in the record
   that refutes the supporting evidence or that fairly detracts from the
   agency's conclusion must also be taken into account. In other words,
   the supporting evidence must still be substantial when viewed in light
   of the entire record." (Legislature of California, Assembly Daily
   Journal, 208th Sess. 13,663- 34 (1982).) CITATIONS Armistead v. State
   Personnel Board (1978) 22 Cal.3d 198, 149 Cal.Rptr.1 Engelmann v. State
   Board of Education (1991) 2 Cal.APP.4th 47, 3 Cal.Rptr.2d 264 Grier v.
   Kizer (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 422, 268 Cal.Rptr. 244 Poshman v. Dumke
   (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 932, 107 Cal.Rptr. 596 State Water Resources
   Control Board v. OAL (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 697, 16 Cal.Rptr.2d 25
   Stoneham v. Rushen (Stoneham I) (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 729, 188
   Cal.Rptr. 130 Yamaha v. State Board of Equalization (1998) 19 Cal.4th
   1, 78 Cal.Rptr.2d howtoparticipate 7/26/01 24
