http://ohsr.od.nih.gov/mpa/45cfr46.php3

                            Title 45 CFR Part 46
                        Protection Of Human Subjects

                               Home Help Admin


   Subpart A -- Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects (Basic
                DHHS
                Policy for Protection of Human Research Subjects)

   Sec.
   46.101 To what does this policy apply?
   46.102 Definitions.
   46.103 Assuring compliance with this policy--research conducted or
          supported by any Federal Department or Agency.
   46.104-
   46.106 [Reserved]
   46.107 IRB membership.
   46.108 IRB functions and operations.
   46.109 IRB review of research.
   46.110 Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research
          involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved
          research.
   46.111 Criteria for IRB approval of research.
   46.112 Review by institution.
   46.113 Suspension or termination of IRB approval of research.
   46.114 Cooperative research.
   46.115 IRB records.
   46.116 General requirements for informed consent.
   46.117 Documentation of informed consent.
   46.118 Applications and proposals lacking definite plans for
          involvement of human subjects.
   46.119 Research undertaken without the intention of involving human
          subjects.
   46.120 Evaluation and disposition of applications and proposals for
          research to be conducted or supported by a Federal Department or
          Agency.
   46.121 [Reserved]
   46.122 Use of Federal funds.
   46.123 Early termination of research support: Evaluation of
          applications and proposals.
   46.124 Conditions.



   Subpart B -- Additional DHHS Protections Pertaining to Research,
   Development, and Related Activities Involving Fetuses, Pregnant Women,
   and Human In Vitro Fertilization
   Sec.
   46.201 Applicability.
   46.202 Purpose.
   46.203 Definitions.
   46.204 Ethical Advisory Boards.
   46.205 Additional duties of the Institutional Review Boards in
          connection with activities involving fetuses, pregnant women, or human
          in vitro fertilization.
   46.206 General limitations.
   46.207 Activities directed toward pregnant women as subjects.
   46.208 Activities directed toward fetuses in utero as subjects.
   46.209 Activities directed toward fetuses ex utero, including nonviable
          fetuses, as subjects.
   46.210 Activities involving the dead fetus, fetal material, or the
          placenta.
   46.211 Modification or waiver of specific requirements.


   Subpart C -- Additional DHHS Protections Pertaining to Biomedical and
                Behavioral Research Involving Prisoners as Subjects
   Sec.
   46.301 Applicability.
   46.302 Purpose.
   46.303 Definitions.
   46.304 Composition of Institutional Review Boards where prisoners are
          involved.
   46.305 Additional duties of the Institutional Review Boards where
          prisoners are involved.
   46.306 Permitted research involving prisoners.


   Subpart D -- Additional DHHS Protections for Children Involved as
                Subjects in Research
   Sec.
   46.401 To what do these regulations apply?
   46.402 Definitions.
   46.403 IRB duties.
   46.404 Research not involving greater than minimal risk.
   46.405 Research involving greater than minimal risk but presenting the
          prospect of direct benefit to the individual subjects.
   46.406 Research involving greater than minimal risk and no prospect of
          direct benefit to individual subjects, but likely to yield
          generalizable knowledge about the subject's disorder or condition.
   46.407 Research not otherwise approvable which presents an opportunity
          to understand, prevent, or alleviate a serious problem affecting the
          health or welfare of children.
   46.408 Requirements for permission by parents or guardians and for
          assent by children.
   46.409 Wards.

   Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; Sec. 474(a), 88 Stat. 352 (42 U.S.C.
   2891-3(a)).

   Note: As revised, Subpart A of the DHHS regulations incorporates the
   Common Rule (Federal Policy) for the Protection of Human Subjects (56
   FR 28003). Subpart D of the HHS regulations has been amended at Section
   46.401(b) to reference the revised Subpart A.

   The Common Rule (Federal Policy) is also codified at
   7 CFR Part 1c    Department of Agriculture
   10 CFR Part 745  Department of Energy
   14 CFR Part 1230 National Aeronautics and Space Administration
   15 CFR Part 27   Department of Commerce
   16 CFR Part 1028 Consumer Product Safety Commission
   22 CFR Part 225  International Development Cooperation Agency,Agency for
                    International Development
   24 CFR Part 60   Department of Housing and Urban Development
   28 CFR Part 46   Department of Justice
   32 CFR Part 219  Department of Defense
   34 CFR Part 97   Department of Education
   38 CFR Part 16   Department of Veterans Affairs
   40 CFR Part 26   Environmental Protection Agency
   45 CFR Part 690  National Science Foundation
   49 CFR Part 11   Department of Transportation
   __________________________________________________________________

                                  TITLE 45
                         CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
                                   PART 46

                        PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS

                                    * * *

                            Revised June 18, 1991
                          Effective August 19, 1991

                                    * * *

    Subpart A Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects (Basic
              DHHS Policy for Protection of Human Research Subjects)
              Source: 56 FR 28003, June 18, 1991.

                  §46.101 To what does this policy apply?

    (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, this policy
    applies to all research involving human subjects conducted, supported
   or otherwise subject to regulation by any Federal Department or Agency
      which takes appropriate administrative action to make the policy
      applicable to such research. This includes research conducted by
     Federal civilian employees or military personnel, except that each
    Department or Agency head may adopt such procedural modifications as
   may be appropriate from an administrative standpoint. It also includes
    research conducted, supported, or otherwise subject to regulation by
              the Federal Government outside the United States.

     (1) Research that is conducted or supported by a Federal Department
     or Agency, whether or not it is regulated as defined in §46.102(e),
     must comply with all sections of this policy.

     (2) Research that is neither conducted nor supported by a Federal
     Department or Agency but is subject to regulation as defined in
     §46.102(e) must be reviewed and approved, in compliance with
     §46.101, §46.102, and §46.107 through §46.117 of this policy, by an
     Institutional Review Board (IRB) thatoperates in accordance with the
     pertinent requirements of this policy.

    (b) Unless otherwise required by Department or Agency heads, research
    activities in which the only involvement of human subjects will be in
   one or more of the following categories are exempt from this policy:^1

     (1) Research conducted in established or commonly accepted
     educational settings, involving normal educational practices, such
     as (i) research on regular and special education instructional
     strategies, or (ii) research on the effectiveness of or the
     comparison among instructional techniques, curricula, or classroom
     management methods.

     (2) Research involving the use of educational tests (cognitive,
     diagnostic, aptitude, achievement), survey procedures, interview
     procedures or observation of public behavior, unless:
     (i) information obtained is recorded in such a manner that human
     subjects can be identified, directly or through identifiers linked
     to the subjects; and (ii) any disclosure of the human subjects'
     responses outside the research could reasonably place the subjects
     at risk of criminal or civil liability or be damaging to the
     subjects' financial standing, employability, or reputation.

     (3) Research involving the use of educational tests (cognitive,
     diagnostic, aptitude, achievement), survey procedures, interview
     procedures, or observation of public behavior that is not exempt
     under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if:
     (i) the human subjects are elected or appointed public officials or
     candidates for public office; or (ii) Federal statute(s) require(s)
     without exception that the confidentiality of the personally
     identifiable information will be maintained throughout the research
     and thereafter.

     (4) Research involving the collection or study of existing data,
     documents, records, pathological specimens, or diagnostic specimens,
     if these sources are publicly available or if the information is
     recorded by the investigator in such a manner that subjects cannot
     be identified, directly or through identifiers linked to the
     subjects.

     (5) Research and demonstration projects which are conducted by or
     subject to the approval of Department or Agency heads, and which are
     designed to study, evaluate, or otherwise examine:
     (i) Public benefit or service programs; (ii) procedures for
     obtaining benefits or services under those programs; (iii) possible
     changes in or alternatives to those programs or procedures; or (iv)
     possible changes in methods or levels of payment for benefits or
     services under those programs.

     (6) Taste and food quality evaluation and consumer acceptance
     studies, (i) if wholesome foods without additives are consumed or
     (ii) if a food isconsumed that contains a food ingredient at or
     below the level and for a use found to be safe, or agricultural
     chemical or environmental contaminant at or below the level found to
     be safe, by the Food and Drug Administration or approved by the
     Environmental Protection Agency or the Food Safety and Inspection
     Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

    (c) Department or Agency heads retain final judgment as to whether a
               particular activity is covered by this policy.

      (d) Department or Agency heads may require that specific research
    activities or classes of research activities conducted, supported, or
     otherwise subject to regulation by the Department or Agency but not
      otherwise covered by this policy, comply with some or all of the
                        requirements of this policy.

     (e) Compliance with this policy requires compliance with pertinent
    Federal laws or regulations which provide additional protections for
                               human subjects.

   (f) This policy does not affect any State or local laws or regulations
       which may otherwise be applicable and which provide additional
                       protections for human subjects.

    (g) This policy does not affect any foreign laws or regulations which
   may otherwise be applicable and which provide additional protections to
                         human subjects of research.

       (h) When research covered by this policy takes place in foreign
     countries, procedures normally followed in the foreign countries to
   protect human subjects may differ from those set forth in this policy.
     [An example is a foreign institution which complies with guidelines
   consistent with the World Medical Assembly Declaration (Declaration of
      Helsinki amended 1989) issued either by sovereign states or by an
      organization whose function for the protection of human research
    subjects is internationally recognized.] In these circumstances, if a
   Department or Agency head determines that the procedures prescribed by
     the institution afford protections that are at least equivalent to
      those provided in this policy, the Department or Agency head may
      approve the substitution of the foreign procedures in lieu of the
   procedural requirements provided in this policy. Except when otherwise
   required by statute, Executive Order, or the Department or Agency head,
   notices of these actions as they occur will be published in the Federal
    Register or will be otherwise published as provided in Department or
                             Agency procedures.

    (i) Unless otherwise required by law, Department or Agency heads may
   waive the applicability of some or all of the provisions of this policy
      to specific research activities or classes or research activities
     otherwise covered by this policy. Except when otherwise required by
   statute or Executive Order, the Department or Agencyhead shall forward
     advance notices of these actions to the Office for Protection from
   Research Risks, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and
      Human Services (DHHS), and shall also publish them in the Federal
    Register or in such other manner as provided in Department or Agency
                                procedures.^1

     ^1 Institutions with DHHS-approved assurances on file will abide by
     provisions of Title 45 CFR Part 46 Subparts A-D. Some of the other
     departments and agencies have incorporated all provisions of Title
     45 CFR Part 46 into their policies and procedures as well. However,
     the exemptions at 45 CFR 46.101(b) do not apply to research
     involving prisoners, fetuses, pregnant women, or human in vitro
     fertilization, Subparts B and C. The exemption at 45 CFR
     46.101(b)(2), for research involving survey or interview procedures
     or observation of public behavior, does not apply to research with
     children, Subpart D, except for research involving observations of
     public behavior when the investigator(s) do not participate in the
     activities being observed.

                            §46.102 Definitions.

   (a) Department or Agency head means the head of any Federal Department
   or Agency and any other officer or employee of any Department or Agency
                    to whom authority has been delegated.

   (b) Institution means any public or private entity or Agency (including
                    Federal, State, and other agencies).

    (c) Legally authorized representative means an individual or judicial
   or other body authorized under applicable law to consent on behalf of a
   prospective subject to the subject's participation in the procedure(s)
                          involved in the research.

      (d) Research means a systematic investigation, including research
   development, testing and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute
      to generalizable knowledge. Activities which meet this definition
    constitute research for purposes of this policy, whether or not they
   are conducted or supported under a program which is considered research
       for other purposes. For example, some demonstration and service
                  programs may include research activities.

    (e) Research subject to regulation, and similar terms are intended to
    encompass those research activities for which a Federal Department or
       Agency has specific responsibility for regulating as a research
        activity, (for example, Investigational New Drug requirements
   administered by the Food and Drug Administration). It does not include
      research activities which are incidentallyregulated by a Federal
     Department or Agency solely as part of the Department's or Agency's
   broader responsibility to regulate certain types of activities whether
       research or non-research in nature (for example, Wage and Hour
           requirements administered by the Department of Labor).

   (f) Human subject means a living individual about whom an investigator
        (whether professional or student) conducting research obtains

     (1) data through intervention or interaction with the individual, or
     (2) identifiable private information.

      Intervention includes both physical procedures by which data are
    gathered (for example, venipuncture) and manipulations of the subject
   or the subject's environment that are performed for research purposes.
     Interaction includes communication or interpersonal contact between
     investigator and subject. Private information includes information
     about behavior that occurs in a context in which an individual can
   reasonably expect that no observation or recording is taking place, and
       information which has been provided for specific purposes by an
    individual and which the individual can reasonably expect will not be
    made public (for example, a medical record). Private information must
    be individually identifiable (i.e., the identity of the subject is or
    may readily be ascertained by the investigator or associated with the
      information) in order for obtaining the information to constitute
                     research involving human subjects.

   (g) IRB means an Institutional Review Board established in accord with
               and for the purposes expressed in this policy.

    (h) IRB approval means the determination of the IRB that the research
     has been reviewed and may be conducted at an institution within the
   constraints set forth by the IRB and by other institutional and Federal
                                requirements.

    (i) Minimal risk means that the probability and magnitude of harm or
      discomfort anticipated in the research are not greater in and of
    themselves than those ordinarily encountered in daily life or during
    the performance of routine physical or psychological examinations or
                                   tests.

   (j) Certification means the official notification by the institution to
         the supporting Department or Agency, in accordance with the
      requirements of this policy, that a research project or activity
    involving human subjects has been reviewed and approved by an IRB in
                   accordance with an approved assurance.

   §46.103 Assuring compliance with this policy -- research conducted or
               supported by any Federal Department or Agency.

      (a) Each institution engaged in research which is covered by this
    policy and which is conducted or supported by a Federal Department or
   Agency shall providewritten assurance satisfactory to the Department or
   Agency head that it will comply with the requirements set forth in this
     policy. In lieu of requiring submission of an assurance, individual
     Department or Agency heads shall accept the existence of a current
    assurance, appropriate for the research in question, on file with the
   Office for Protection from Research Risks, National Institutes Health,
       DHHS, and approved for Federalwide use by that office. When the
       existence of an DHHS-approved assurance is accepted in lieu of
    requiring submission of an assurance, reports (except certification)
   required by this policy to be made to Department and Agency heads shall
   also be made to the Office for Protection from Research Risks, National
                         Institutes of Health, DHHS.

    (b) Departments and agencies will conduct or support research covered
     by this policy only if the institution has an assurance approved as
   provided in this section, and only if the institution has certified to
    the Department or Agency head that the research has been reviewed and
    approved by an IRB provided for in the assurance, and will be subject
     to continuing review by the IRB. Assurances applicable to federally
         supported or conducted research shall at a minimum include:

     (1) A statement of principles governing the institution in the
     discharge of its responsibilities for protecting the rights and
     welfare of human subjects of research conducted at or sponsored by
     the institution, regardless of whether the research is subject to
     Federal regulation. This may include an appropriate existing code,
     declaration, or statement of ethical principles, or a statement
     formulated by the institution itself. This requirement does not
     preempt provisions of this policy applicable to Department- or
     Agency-supported or regulated research and need not be applicable to
     any research exempted or waived under §46.101 (b) or (i).

     (2) Designation of one or more IRBs established in accordance with
     the requirements of this policy, and for which provisions are made
     for meeting space and sufficient staff to support the IRB's review
     and recordkeeping duties.

     (3) A list of IRB members identified by name; earned degrees;
     representative capacity; indications of experience such as board
     certifications, licenses, etc., sufficient to describe each member's
     chief anticipated contributions to IRB deliberations; and any
     employment or other relationship between each member and the
     institution; for example: full-time employee, part-time employee,
     member of governing panel or board, stockholder, paid or unpaid
     consultant. Changes in IRB membership shall be reported to the
     Department or Agency head, unless in accord with §46.103(a) of this
     policy, the existence of a DHHS-approved assurance is accepted. In
     this case, change in IRB membership shall be reported to the Office
     for Protection from Research Risks, National Institutes of Health,
     DHHS.

     (4) Written procedures which the IRB will follow (i) for conducting
     its initial and continuing review of research and for reporting its
     findings and actions to the investigator and the institution; (ii)
     for determining which projects require review more often than
     annually and which projects need verification from sources other
     than the investigators that no material changes have occurred since
     previous IRB review; and (iii) for ensuring prompt reporting to the
     IRB of proposed changes in a research activity, and for ensuring
     that such changes in approved research, during the period for which
     IRB approval has already been given, may not be initiated without
     IRB review and approval except when necessary to eliminate apparent
     immediate hazards to the subject.

     (5) Written procedures for ensuring prompt reporting to the IRB,
     appropriate institutional officials, and the Department or Agency
     head of (i) any unanticipated problems involving risks to subjects
     or others or any serious or continuing noncompliance with this
     policy or the requirements or determinations of the IRB; and (ii)
     any suspension or termination of IRB approval.

   (c) The assurance shall be executed by an individual authorized to act
     for the institution and to assume on behalf of the institution the
   obligations imposed by this policy and shall be filed in such form and
             manner as the Department or Agency head prescribes.

       (d) The Department or Agency head will evaluate all assurances
     submitted in accordance with this policy through such officers and
    employees of the Department or Agency and such experts or consultants
   engaged for this purpose as the Department or Agency head determines to
    be appropriate. The Department or Agency head's evaluation will take
     into consideration the adequacy of the proposed IRB in light of the
     anticipated scope of the institution's research activities and the
   types of subject populations likely to be involved, the appropriateness
    of the proposed initial and continuing review procedures in light of
     the probable risks, and the size and complexity of the institution.

   (e) On the basis of this evaluation, the Department or Agency head may
     approve or disapprove the assurance, or enter into negotiations to
   develop an approvable one. The Department or Agency head may limit the
      period during which any particular approved assurance or class of
    approved assurances shall remain effective or otherwise condition or
                             restrict approval.

      (f) Certification is required when the research is supported by a
   Federal Department or Agency and not otherwise exempted or waived under
    §46.101 (b) or (i). An institution with an approved assurance shall
    certify that each application or proposal for research covered by the
   assurance and by §46.103 of this policy has been reviewed and approved
    by the IRB. Such certification must be submitted with the application
        or proposal or by such later date as may be prescribed by the
   Department or Agency to which the application or proposal is submitted.
   Under no condition shall research covered by §46.103 of the policy be
    supported prior to receipt of the certification that the research has
   been reviewed and approved by the IRB. Institutions without an approved
     assurance covering the research shall certify within 30 days after
    receipt of a request for such a certification from the Department or
   Agency, that the application or proposal has been approved by the IRB.
     If the certification is not submitted within these time limits, the
         application or proposal may be returned to the institution.
    (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number
                                 9999-0020.)

                        §§46.104--46.106 [Reserved]

                          §46.107 IRB membership.

   (a) Each IRB shall have at least five members, with varying backgrounds
   to promote complete and adequate review of research activities commonly
    conducted by the institution. The IRB shall be sufficiently qualified
   through the experience and expertise of its members, and the diversity
    of the members, including consideration of race, gender, and cultural
    backgrounds and sensitivity to such issues as community attitudes, to
    promote respect for its advice and counsel in safeguarding the rights
        and welfare of human subjects. In addition to possessing the
        professional competence necessary to review specific research
     activities, the IRB shall be able to ascertain the acceptability of
         proposed research in terms of institutional commitments and
   regulations, applicable law, and standards of professional conduct and
     practice. The IRB shall therefore include persons knowledgeable in
      these areas. If an IRB regularly reviews research that involves a
   vulnerable category of subjects, such as children, prisoners, pregnant
   women, or handicapped or mentally disabled persons, consideration shall
        be given to the inclusion of one or more individuals who are
     knowledgeable about and experienced in working with these subjects.

    (b) Every nondiscriminatory effort will be made to ensure that no IRB
        consists entirely of men or entirely of women, including the
   institution's consideration of qualified persons of both sexes, so long
    as no selection is made to the IRB on the basis of gender. No IRB may
               consist entirely of members of one profession.

    (c) Each IRB shall include at least one member whose primary concerns
   are in scientific areas and at least one member whose primary concerns
                         are in nonscientific areas.

     (d) Each IRB shall include at least one member who is not otherwise
    affiliated with the institution and who is not part of the immediate
         family of a person who is affiliated with the institution.

      (e) No IRB may have a member participate in the IRB's initial or
   continuing review of any project in which the member has a conflicting
        interest, except to provide information requested by the IRB.

    (f) An IRB may, in its discretion, invite individuals with competence
      in special areas to assist in the review of issues which require
     expertise beyond or in addition to that available on the IRB. These
                    individuals may not vote with the IRB

                   §46.108 IRB functions and operations.

     In order to fulfill the requirements of this policy each IRB shall:

      (a) Follow written procedures in the same detail as described in
        §46.103(b)(4) and to the extent required by §46.103(b)(5).

    (b) Except when an expedited review procedure is used (see §46.110),
    review proposed research at convened meetings at which a majority of
   the members of the IRB are present, including at least one member whose
   primary concerns are in nonscientific areas. In order for the research
    to be approved, it shall receive the approval of a majority of those
                       members present at the meeting

                      §46.109 IRB review of research.

       (a) An IRB shall review and have authority to approve, require
      modifications in (to secure approval), or disapprove all research
                     activities covered by this policy.

   (b) An IRB shall require that information given to subjects as part of
    informed consent is in accordance with §46.116. The IRB may require
       that information, in addition to that specifically mentioned in
      §46.116, be given to the subjects when in the IRB's judgment the
   information would meaningfully add to the protection of the rights and
                            welfare of subjects.

   (c) An IRB shall require documentation of informed consent or may waive
                 documentation in accordance with §46.117.

   (d) An IRB shall notify investigators and the institution in writing of
    its decision to approve or disapprove the proposed research activity,
     or of modifications required to secure IRB approval of the research
     activity. If the IRB decides to disapprove a research activity, it
    shall include in its written notification a statement of the reasons
   for its decision and give the investigator an opportunity to respond in
                            person or in writing.

   (e) An IRB shall conduct continuing review of research covered by this
     policy at intervals appropriate to the degree of risk, but not less
   than once per year, and shall have authority to observe or have a third
             party observe the consent process and the research.
    (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number
                                 9999-0020.)

     §46.110 Expedited review procedures for certain kinds of research
   involving no more than minimal risk, and for minor changes in approved
                                  research.

    (a) The Secretary, HHS, has established, and published as a Notice in
     the Federal Register, a list of categories of research that may be
     reviewed by the IRB through an expedited review procedure. The list
       will be amended, as appropriate, after consultation with other
       departments and agencies, through periodic republication by the
       Secretary, HHS, in the Federal Register. A copy of the list is
   available from the Office for Protection from Research Risks, National
            Institutes of Health, DHHS, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.

    (b) An IRB may use the expedited review procedure to review either or
                           both of the following:

     (1) some or all of the research appearing on the list and found by
     the reviewer(s) to involve no more than minimal risk,

     (2) minor changes in previously approved research during the period
     (of one year or less) for which approval is authorized.

    Under an expedited review procedure, the review may be carried out by
   the IRB chairperson or by one or more experienced reviewers designated
     by the chairperson from among members of the IRB. In reviewing the
   research, the reviewers may exercise all of the authorities of the IRB
    except that the reviewers may not disapprove the research. A research
    activity may be disapproved only after review in accordance with the
              non-expedited procedure set forth in §46.108(b).

     (c) Each IRB which uses an expedited review procedure shall adopt a
   method for keeping all members advised of research proposals which have
                     been approved under the procedure.

   (d) The Department or Agency head may restrict, suspend, terminate, or
   choose not to authorize an institution's or IRB's use of the expedited
                              review procedure.

               §46.111 Criteria for IRB approval of research.

    (a) In order to approve research covered by this policy the IRB shall
       determine that all of the following requirements are satisfied:

     (1) Risks to subjects are minimized: (i) by using procedures which
     are consistent with sound research design and which do not
     unnecessarily expose subjects to risk, and (ii) whenever
     appropriate, by using procedures already being performed on the
     subjects for diagnostic or treatment purposes.

     (2) Risks to subjects are reasonable in relation to anticipated
     benefits, if any, to subjects, and the importance of the knowledge
     that may reasonably be expected to result. In evaluating risks and
     benefits, the IRB should consider only those risks and benefits that
     may result from the research (as distinguished from risks and
     benefits of therapies subjects would receive even if not
     participating in the research). The IRB should not consider possible
     long-range effects of applying knowledge gained in the research (for
     example, the possible effects of the research on public policy) as
     among those research risks that fall within the purview of its
     responsibility.

     (3) Selection of subjects is equitable. In making this assessment
     the IRB should take into account the purposes of the research and
     the setting in which the research will be conducted and should be
     particularly cognizant of the special problems of research involving
     vulnerable populations, such as children, prisoners, pregnant women,
     mentally disable persons, or economically or educationally
     disadvantaged persons.

     (4) Informed consent will be sought from each prospective subject or
     the subject's legally authorized representative, in accordance with,
     and to the extent required by §46.116.

     (5) Informed consent will be appropriately documented, in accordance
     with, and to the extent required by §46.117.

     (6) When appropriate, the research plan makes adequate provision for
     monitoring the data collected to ensure the safety of subjects.

     (7) When appropriate, there are adequate provisions to protect the
     privacy of subjects and to maintain the confidentiality of data.

     (b) When some or all of the subjects are likely to be vulnerable to
     coercion or undue influence, such as children, prisoners, pregnant
     women, mentally disabled persons, or economically or educationally
   disadvantaged persons, additional safeguards have been included in the
         study to protect the rights and welfare of these subjects.

                       §46.112 Review by institution.

   Research covered by this policy that has been approved by an IRB may be
    subject to further appropriate review and approval or disapproval by
   officials of the institution. However, those officials may not approve
             the research if it has not been approved by an IRB.

       §46.113 Suspension or termination of IRB approval of research.

       An IRB shall have authority to suspend or terminate approval of
      research that is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB's
    requirements or that has been associated with unexpected serious harm
   to subjects. Any suspension or termination or approval shall include a
     statement of the reasons for the IRB's action and shall be reported
   promptly to the investigator, appropriate institutional officials, and
                       the Department or Agency head.
    (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number
                                 9999-0020.)

                       §46.114 Cooperative research.

   Cooperative research projects are those projects covered by this policy
   which involve more than one institution. In the conduct of cooperative
   research projects, each institution is responsible for safeguarding the
      rights and welfare of human subjects and for complying with this
       policy. With the approval of the Department or Agency head, an
     institution participating in a cooperative project may enter into a
     joint review arrangement, rely upon the review of another qualified
    IRB, or make similar arrangements for avoiding duplication of effort.

                            §46.115 IRB records.

      (a) An institution, or when appropriate an IRB, shall prepare and
      maintain adequate documentation of IRB activities, including the
                                 following:

     (1) Copies of all research proposals reviewed, scientific
     evaluations, if any, that accompany the proposals, approved sample
     consent documents, progress reports submitted by investigators, and
     reports of injuries to subjects.

     (2) Minutes of IRB meetings which shall be in sufficient detail to
     show attendance at the meetings; actions taken by the IRB; the vote
     on these actions including the number of members voting for,
     against, and abstaining; the basis for requiring changes in or
     disapproving research; and a written summary of the discussion of
     controverted issues and their resolution.

     (3) Records of continuing review activities.

     (4) Copies of all correspondence between the IRB and the
     investigators.

     (5) A list of IRB members in the same detail as described in
     §46.103(b)(3).

     (6) Written procedures for the IRB in the same detail as described
     in §46.103(b)(4) and §46.103(b)(5).

     (7) Statements of significant new findings provided to subjects, as
     required by §46.116(b)(5).

   (b) The records required by this policy shall be retained for at least
    3 years, and records relating to research which is conducted shall be
     retained for at least 3 years after completion of the research. All
    records shall be accessible for inspection and copying by authorized
   representatives of the Department or Agency at reasonable times and in
                            a reasonable manner.
    (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number
                                 9999-0020.)

             §46.116 General requirements for informed consent.

      Except as provided elsewhere in this policy, no investigator may
    involve a human being as a subject in research covered by this policy
     unless the investigator has obtained the legally effective informed
         consent of the subject or the subject's legally authorized
     representative. An investigator shall seek such consent only under
          circumstances that provide the prospective subject or the
     representative sufficient opportunity to consider whether or not to
     participate and that minimize the possibility of coercion or undue
       influence. The information that is given to the subject or the
    representative shall be in language understandable to the subject or
    the representative. No informed consent, whether oral or written, may
      include any exculpatory language through which the subject or the
   representative is made to waive or appear to waive any of the subject's
    legal rights, or releases or appears to release the investigator, the
    sponsor, the institution or its agents from liability for negligence.

   (a) Basic elements of informed consent. Except as provided in paragraph
    (c) or (d) of this section, in seeking informed consent the following
               information shall be provided to each subject:

     (1) a statement that the study involves research, an explanation of
     the purposes of the research and the expected duration of the
     subject's participation, a description of the procedures to be
     followed, and identification of any procedures which are
     experimental;

     (2) a description of any reasonably foreseeable risks or discomforts
     to the subject;

     (3) a description of any benefits to the subject or to others which
     may reasonably be expected from the research;

     (4) a disclosure of appropriate alternative procedures or courses of
     treatment, if any, that might be advantageous to the subject;

     (5) a statement describing the extent, if any, to which
     confidentiality of records identifying the subject will be
     maintained;

     (6) for research involving more than minimal risk, an explanation as
     to whether any compensation and an explanation as to whether any
     medical treatments are available if injury occurs and, if so, what
     they consist of, or where further information may be obtained;

     (7) an explanation of whom to contact for answers to pertinent
     questions about the research and research subjects' rights, and whom
     to contact in the event of a research-related injury to the subject;
     and

     (8) a statement that participation is voluntary, refusal to
     participate will involve no penalty or loss of benefits to which the
     subject is otherwise entitled, and the subject may discontinue
     participation at any time without penalty or loss of benefits to
     which the subject is otherwise entitled.

    (b) additional elements of informed consent. When appropriate, one or
   more of the following elements of information shall also be provided to
                                each subject:

     (1) a statement that the particular treatment or procedure may
     involve risks to the subject (or to the embryo or fetus, if the
     subject is or may become pregnant) which are currently
     unforeseeable;

     (2) anticipated circumstances under which the subject's
     participation may be terminated by the investigator without regard
     to the subject's consent;

     (3) any additional costs to the subject that may result from
     participation in the research;

     (4) the consequences of a subject's decision to withdraw from the
     research and procedures for orderly termination of participation by
     the subject;

     (5) A statement that significant new findings developed during the
     course of the research which may relate to the subject's willingness
     to continue participation will be provided to the subject; and

     (6) the approximate number of subjects involved in the study.

    (c) An IRB may approve a consent procedure which does not include, or
   which alters, some or all of the elements of informed consent set forth
   above, or waive the requirement to obtain informed consent provided the
                        IRB finds and documents that:

     (1) the research or demonstration project is to be conducted by or
     subject to the approval of state or local government officials and
     is designed to study, evaluate, or otherwise examine: (i) public
     benefit or service programs; (ii) procedures for obtaining benefits
     or services under those programs; (iii) possible changes in or
     alternatives to those programs or procedures; or (iv) possible
     changes in methods or levels of payment for benefits or services
     under those programs; and

     (2) the research could not practicably be carried out without the
     waiver or alteration.

    (d) An IRB may approve a consent procedure which does not include, or
   which alters, some or all of the elements of informed consent set forth
    in this section, or waive the requirements to obtain informed consent
                 provided the IRB finds and documents that:

     (1) the research involves no more than minimal risk to the subjects;

     (2) the waiver or alteration will not adversely affect the rights
     and welfare of the subjects;

     (3) the research could not practicably be carried out without the
     waiver or alteration; and

     (4) whenever appropriate, the subjects will be provided with
     additional pertinent information after participation.

    (e) The informed consent requirements in this policy are not intended
    to preempt any applicable Federal, State, or local laws which require
   additional information to be disclosed in order for informed consent to
                            be legally effective.

     (f) Nothing in this policy is intended to limit the authority of a
       physician to provide emergency medical care, to the extent the
     physician is permitted to do so under applicable Federal, State, or
                                 local law.
    (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number
                                 9999-0020.)

                 §46.117 Documentation of informed consent.

      (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, informed
      consent shall be documented by the use of a written consent form
   approved by the IRB and signed by the subject or the subject's legally
   authorized representative. A copy shall be given to the person signing
                                  the form.

    (b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the consent
                    form may be either of the following:

     (1) A written consent document that embodies the elements of
     informed consent required by §46.116. This form may be read to the
     subject or the subject's legally authorized representative, but in
     any event, the investigator shall give either the subject or the
     representative adequate opportunity to read it before it is signed;
     or

     (2) A short form written consent document stating that the elements
     of informed consent required by §46.116 have been presented orally
     to the subject or the subject's legally authorized representative.
     When this method is used, there shall be a witness to the oral
     presentation. Also, the IRB shall approve a written summary of what
     is to be said to the subject or the representative. Only the short
     form itself is to be signed by the subject or the representative.
     However, the witness shall sign both the short form and a copy of
     the summary, and the person actually obtaining consent shall sign a
     copy of the summary. A copy of the summary shall be given to the
     subject or the representative, in addition to a copy of the short
     form.

    (c) An IRB may waive the requirement for the investigator to obtain a
      signed consent form for some or all subjects if it finds either:

     (1) That the only record linking the subject and the research would
     be the consent document and the principal risk would be potential
     harm resulting from a breach of confidentiality. Each subject will
     be asked whether the subject wants documentation linking the subject
     with the research, and the subject's wishes will govern; or

     (2) That the research presents no more than minimal risk of harm to
     subjects and involves no procedures for which written consent is
     normally required outside of the research context.

   In cases in which the documentation requirement is waived, the IRB may
    require the investigator to provide subjects with a written statement
                           regarding the research.
    (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under Control Number
                                 9999-0020.)

       §46.118 Applications and proposals lacking definite plans for
                       involvement of human subjects.

    Certain types of applications for grants, cooperative agreements, or
    contracts are submitted to departments or agencies with the knowledge
       that subjects may be involved within the period of support, but
    definite plans would not normally be set forth in the application or
    proposal. These include activities such as institutional type grants
          when selection of specific projects is the institution's
      responsibility; research training grants in which the activities
    involving subjects remain to be selected; and projects in which human
   subjects' involvement will depend upon completion of instruments, prior
    animal studies, or purification of compounds. These applications need
   not be reviewed by an IRB before an award may be made. However, except
     for research exempted or waived under §46.101 (b) or (i), no human
   subjects may be involved in any project supported by these awards until
    the project has been reviewed and approved by the IRB, as provided in
    this policy, and certification submitted, by the institution, to the
                            Department or Agency.

    §46.119 Research undertaken without the intention of involving human
                                  subjects.

   In the event research is undertaken without the intention of involving
    human subjects, but it is later proposed to involve human subjects in
    the research, the research shall first be reviewed and approved by an
     IRB, as provided in this policy, a certification submitted, by the
    institution, to the Department or Agency, and final approval given to
              the proposed change by the Department or Agency.

    §46.120 Evaluation and disposition of applications and proposals for
      research to be conducted or supported by a Federal Department or
                                   Agency.

    (a) The Department or Agency head will evaluate all applications and
      proposals involving human subjects submitted to the Department or
   Agency through such officers and employees of the Department or Agency
      and such experts and consultants as the Department or Agency head
        determines to be appropriate. This evaluation will take into
     consideration the risks to the subjects, the adequacy of protection
     against these risks, the potential benefits of the research to the
    subjects and others, and the importance of the knowledge gained or to
                                 be gained.

   (b) On the basis of this evaluation, the Department or Agency head may
      approve or disapprove the application or proposal, or enter into
                 negotiations to develop an approvable one.

                             §46.121 [Reserved]

                       §46.122 Use of Federal funds.

       Federal funds administered by a Department or Agency may not be
   expended for research involving human subjects unless the requirements
                     of this policy have been satisfied.

        §46.123 Early termination of research support: Evaluation of
                         applications and proposals.

   (a) The Department or Agency head may require that Department or Agency
      support for any project be terminated or suspended in the manner
    prescribed in applicable program requirements, when the Department or
    Agency head finds an institution has materially failed to comply with
                          the terms of this policy.

    (b) In making decisions about supporting or approving applications or
   proposals covered by this policy the Department or Agency head may take
     into account, in addition to all other eligibility requirements and
      program criteria, factors such as whether the applicant has been
     subject to a termination or suspension under paragraph (a) of this
    section and whether the applicant or the person or persons who would
   direct or has/have directed the scientific and technical aspects of an
    activity has/have, in the judgment of the Department or Agency head,
   materially failed to discharge responsibility for the protection of the
    rights and welfare of human subjects (whether or not the research was
                       subject to Federal regulation).

                            §46.124 Conditions.

   With respect to any research project or any class of research projects
   the Department or Agency head may impose additional conditions prior to
    or at the time of approval when in the judgment of the Department or
    Agency head additional conditions are necessary for the protection of
                               human subjects.


Subpart B Additional DHHS Protections Pertaining to Research,
          Development, and Related Activities Involving Fetuses, Pregnant Women,
          and Human In Vitro Fertilization
          Source: 40 FR 33528, Aug. 8, 1975; 43 FR 1758, January 11, 1978;
          43 FR 51559, November 3, 1978.

                           §46.201 Applicability.

   (a) The regulations in this subpart are applicable to all Department of
     Health and Human Services grants and contracts supporting research,
      development, and related activities involving: (1) the fetus, (2)
            pregnant women, and (3) human in vitro fertilization.

      (b) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed as indicating that
   compliance with the procedures set forth herein will in any way render
     inapplicable pertinent State or local laws bearing upon activities
                          covered by this subpart.

    (c) The requirements of this subpart are in addition to those imposed
                   under the other subparts of this part.

                              §46.202 Purpose.

    It is the purpose of this subpart to provide additional safeguards in
   reviewing activities to which this subpart is applicable to assure that
    they conform to appropriate ethical standards and relate to important
                               societal needs.

                            §46.203 Definitions.

                          As used in this subpart:

    (a) "Secretary" means the Secretary of Health and Human Services and
     any other officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human
            Services (DHHS) to whom authority has been delegated.

     (b) "Pregnancy" encompasses the period of time from confirmation of
    implantation (through any of the presumptive signs of pregnancy, such
    as missed menses, or by a medically acceptable pregnancy test), until
                    expulsion or extraction of the fetus.

        (c) "Fetus" means the product of conception from the time of
        implantation (as evidenced by any of the presumptive signs of
    pregnancy, such as missed menses, or a medically acceptable pregnancy
   test), until a determination is made, following expulsion or extraction
                      of the fetus, that it is viable.

   (d) "Viable" as it pertains to the fetus means being able, after either
      spontaneous or induced delivery, to survive (given the benefit of
    available medical therapy) to the point of independently maintaining
   heart beat and respiration. The Secretary may from time to time, taking
       into account medical advances, publish in the Federal Register
      guidelines to assist in determining whether a fetus is viable for
   purposes of this subpart. If a fetus is viable after delivery, it is a
                              premature infant.

   (e) "Nonviable fetus" means a fetus ex utero which, although living, is
                                 not viable.

       (f) "Dead fetus" means a fetus ex utero which exhibits neither
    heartbeat, spontaneous respiratory activity, spontaneous movement of
      voluntary muscles, nor pulsation of the umbilical cord (if still
                                 attached).

   (g) "In vitro fertilization" means any fertilization of human ova which
   occurs outside the body of a female, either through admixture of donor
                 human sperm and ova or by any other means.

                      §46.204 Ethical Advisory Boards.

     (a) One or more Ethical Advisory Boards shall be established by the
     Secretary. Members of these Board(s) shall be so selected that the
       Board(s) will be competent to deal with medical, legal, social,
     ethical, and related issues and may include, for example, research
       scientists, physicians, psychologists, sociologists, educators,
      lawyers, and ethicists, as well as representatives of the general
     public. No Board member may be a regular, full-time employee of the
                  Department of Health and Human Services.

    (b) At the request of the Secretary, the Ethical Advisory Board shall
     render advice consistent with the policies and requirements of this
       part as to ethical issues, involving activities covered by this
    subpart, raised by individual applications or proposals. In addition,
     upon request by the Secretary, the Board shall render advice as to
   classes of applications or proposals and general policies, guidelines,
                               and procedures.

   (c) A Board may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, classes
   of applications or proposals which: (1) must be submitted to the Board,
        or (2) need not be submitted to the Board. Where the Board so
        establishes a class ofapplications or proposals which must be
   submitted, no application or proposal within the class may be funded by
      the Department or any component thereof until the application or
     proposal has been reviewed by the Board and the Board has rendered
         advice as to its acceptability from an ethical standpoint.

           (d) [Nullified under Public Law 103-43, June 10, 1993]

      §46.205 Additional duties of the Institutional Review Boards in
   connection with activities involving fetuses, pregnant women, or human
                           in vitro fertilization.

    (a) In addition to the responsibilities prescribed for Institutional
       Review Boards under Subpart A of this part, the applicant's or
      offeror's Board shall, with respect to activities covered by this
             subpart, carry out the following additional duties:

     (1) determine that all aspects of the activity meet the requirements
     of this subpart;

     (2) determine that adequate consideration has been given to the
     manner in which potential subjects will be selected, and adequate
     provision has been made by the applicant or offeror for monitoring
     the actual informed consent process (e.g., through such mechanisms,
     when appropriate, as participation by the Institutional Review Board
     or subject advocates in: (i) overseeing the actual process by which
     individual consents required by this subpart are secured either by
     approving induction of each individual into the activity or
     verifying, perhaps through sampling, that approved procedures for
     induction of individuals into the activity are being followed, and
     (ii) monitoring the progress of the activity and intervening as
     necessary through such steps as visits to the activity site and
     continuing evaluation to determine if any unanticipated risks have
     arisen);

     (3) carry out such other responsibilities as may be assigned by the
     Secretary.

   (b) No award may be issued until the applicant or offeror has certified
      to the Secretary that the Institutional Review Board has made the
     determinations required under paragraph (a) of this section and the
   Secretary has approved these determinations, as provided in §46.120 of
                           Subpart A of this part.

    (c) Applicants or offerors seeking support for activities covered by
      this subpart must provide for the designation of an Institutional
   Review Board, subject to approval by the Secretary, where no such Board
             has been established under Subpart A of this part.

                        §46.206 General limitations.

    (a) No activity to which this subpart is applicable may be undertaken
                                   unless:

     (1) appropriate studies on animals and nonpregnant individuals have
     been completed;

     (2) except where the purpose of the activity is to meet the health
     needs of the mother or the particular fetus, the risk to the fetus
     is minimal and, in all cases, is the least possible risk for
     achieving the objectives of the activity;

     (3) individuals engaged in the activity will have no part in: (i)
     any decisions as to the timing, method, and procedures used to
     terminate the pregnancy, and (ii) determining the viability of the
     fetus at the termination of the pregnancy; and

     (4) no procedural changes which may cause greater than minimal risk
     to the fetus or the pregnant woman will be introduced into the
     procedure for terminating the pregnancy solely in the interest of
     the activity.

   (b) No inducements, monetary or otherwise, may be offered to terminate
                   pregnancy for purposes of the activity.
    Source: 40 FR 33528, Aug. 8, 1975, as amended at 40 FR 51638, Nov. 6,
                                    1975.

       §46.207 Activities directed toward pregnant women as subjects.

      (a) No pregnant woman may be involved as a subject in an activity
    covered by this subpart unless: (1) the purpose of the activity is to
     meet the health needs of the mother and the fetus will be placed at
    risk only to the minimum extent necessary to meet such needs, or (2)
                      the risk to the fetus is minimal.

    (b) An activity permitted under paragraph (a) of this section may be
   conducted only if the mother and father are legally competent and have
   given their informed consent after having been fully informed regarding
   possible impact on the fetus, except that the father's informed consent
   need not be secured if: (1) the purpose of the activity is to meet the
     health needs of the mother; (2) his identity or whereabouts cannot
    reasonably be ascertained; (3) he is not reasonably available; or (4)
                      the pregnancy resulted from rape.

      §46.208 Activities directed toward fetuses in utero as subjects.

     (a) No fetus in utero may be involved as a subject in any activity
    covered by this subpart unless: (1) the purpose of the activity is to
     meet the health needs ofthe particular fetus and the fetus will be
   placed at risk only to the minimum extent necessary to meet such needs,
   or (2) the risk to the fetus imposed by the research is minimal and the
     purpose of the activity is the development of important biomedical
             knowledge which cannot be obtained by other means.

    (b) An activity permitted under paragraph (a) of this section may be
   conducted only if the mother and father are legally competent and have
   given their informed consent, except that the father's consent need not
     be secured if: (1) his identity or whereabouts cannot reasonably be
    ascertained, (2) he is not reasonably available, or (3) the pregnancy
                             resulted from rape.

       §46.209 Activities directed toward fetuses ex utero, including
                       nonviable fetuses, as subjects.

    (a) Until it has been ascertained whether or not a fetus ex utero is
       viable, a fetus ex utero may not be involved as a subject in an
                  activity covered by this subpart unless:

     (1) there will be no added risk to the fetus resulting from the
     activity, and the purpose of the activity is the development of
     important biomedical knowledge which cannot be obtained by other
     means, or

     (2) the purpose of the activity is to enhance the possibility of
     survival of the particular fetus to the point of viability.

     (b) No nonviable fetus may be involved as a subject in an activity
                       covered by this subpart unless:

     (1) vital functions of the fetus will not be artificially
     maintained,

     (2) experimental activities which of themselves would terminate the
     heartbeat or respiration of the fetus will not be employed, and

     (3) the purpose of the activity is the development of important
     biomedical knowledge which cannot be obtained by other means.

    (c) In the event the fetus ex utero is found to be viable, it may be
    included as a subject in the activity only to the extent permitted by
   and in accordance with the requirements of other subparts of this part.

    (d) An activity permitted under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section
    may be conducted only if the mother and father are legally competent
       and have given their informed consent, except that the father's
        informed consent need not be secured if: (1) his identity or
    whereabouts cannot reasonably be ascertained, (2) heis not reasonably
             available, or (3) the pregnancy resulted from rape.

    §46.210 Activities involving the dead fetus, fetal material, or the
                                  placenta.

     Activities involving the dead fetus, mascerated fetal material, or
    cells, tissue, or organs excised from a dead fetus shall be conducted
    only in accordance with any applicable State or local laws regarding
                              such activities.

          §46.211 Modification or waiver of specific requirements.

    Upon the request of an applicant or offeror (with the approval of its
   Institutional Review Board), the Secretary may modify or waive specific
   requirements of this subpart, with the approval of the Ethical Advisory
   Board after such opportunity for public comment as the Ethical Advisory
   Board considers appropriate in the particular instance. In making such
   decisions, the Secretary will consider whether the risks to the subject
     are so outweighed by the sum of the benefit to the subject and the
         importance of the knowledge to be gained as to warrant such
    modification or waiver and that such benefits cannot be gained except
     through a modification or waiver. Any such modifications or waivers
            will be published as notices in the Federal Register.


     Subpart C Additional DHHS Protections Pertaining to Biomedical and
               Behavioral Research Involving Prisoners as Subjects
               Source: 43 FR 53655, Nov. 16, 1978.

                           §46.301 Applicability.

    (a) The regulations in this subpart are applicable to all biomedical
     and behavioral research conducted or supported by the Department of
         Health and Human Services involving prisoners as subjects.

      (b) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed as indicating that
   compliance with the procedures set forth herein will authorize research
   involving prisoners as subjects, to the extent such research is limited
                 or barred by applicable State or local law.

    (c) The requirements of this subpart are in addition to those imposed
                   under the other subparts of this part.

                              §46.302 Purpose.

       Inasmuch as prisoners may be under constraints because of their
       incarceration which could affect their ability to make a truly
      voluntary and uncoerced decision whether or not to participate as
     subjects in research, it is the purpose of this subpart to provide
      additional safeguards for the protection of prisoners involved in
               activities to which this subpart is applicable.

                            §46.303 Definitions.

                          As used in this subpart:

    (a) "Secretary" means the Secretary of Health and Human Services and
     any other officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human
               Services to whom authority has been delegated.

        (b) "DHHS" means the Department of Health and Human Services.

   (c) "Prisoner" means any individual involuntarily confined or detained
    in a penal institution. The term is intended to encompass individuals
     sentenced to such an institution under a criminal or civil statute,
      individuals detained in other facilities by virtue of statutes or
   commitment procedures which providealternatives to criminal prosecution
      or incarceration in a penal institution, and individuals detained
                 pending arraignment, trial, or sentencing.

     (d) "Minimal risk" is the probability and magnitude of physical or
   psychological harm that is normally encountered in the daily lives, or
   in the routine medical, dental, or psychological examination of healthy
                                  persons.

   §46.304 Composition of Institutional Review Boards where prisoners are
                                  involved.

   In addition to satisfying the requirements in §46.107 of this part, an
    Institutional Review Board, carrying out responsibilities under this
   part with respect to research covered by this subpart, shall also meet
                    the following specific requirements:

   (a) A majority of the Board (exclusive of prisoner members) shall have
   no association with the prison(s) involved, apart from their membership
                                on the Board.

   (b) At least one member of the Board shall be a prisoner, or a prisoner
    representative with appropriate background and experience to serve in
      that capacity, except that where a particular research project is
      reviewed by more than one Board only one Board need satisfy this
                                requirement.

     §46.305 Additional duties of the Institutional Review Boards where
                           prisoners are involved.

        (a) In addition to all other responsibilities prescribed for
     Institutional Review Boards under this part, the Board shall review
    research covered by this subpart and approve such research only if it
                                 finds that:

     (1) the research under review represents one of the categories of
     research permissible under §46.306(a)(2);

     (2) any possible advantages accruing to the prisoner through his or
     her participation in the research, when compared to the general
     living conditions, medical care, quality of food, amenities and
     opportunity for earnings in the prison, are not of such a magnitude
     that his or her ability to weigh the risks of the research against
     the value of such advantages in the limited choice environment of
     the prison is impaired;

     (3) the risks involved in the research are commensurate with risks
     that would be accepted by nonprisoner volunteers;

     (4) procedures for the selection of subjects within the prison are
     fair to all prisoners and immune from arbitrary intervention by
     prison authorities or prisoners. Unless the principal investigator
     provides to the Board justification in writing for following some
     other procedures, control subjects must be selected randomly from
     the group of available prisoners who meet the characteristics needed
     for that particular research project;

     (5) the information is presented in language which is understandable
     to the subject population;

     (6) adequate assurance exists that parole boards will not take into
     account a prisoner's participation in the research in making
     decisions regarding parole, and each prisoner is clearly informed in
     advance that participation in the research will have no effect on
     his or her parole; and

     (7) where the Board finds there may be a need for follow-up
     examination or care of participants after the end of their
     participation, adequate provision has been made for such examination
     or care, taking into account the varying lengths of individual
     prisoners' sentences, and for informing participants of this fact.

    (b) The Board shall carry out such other duties as may be assigned by
                               the Secretary.

    (c) The institution shall certify to the Secretary, in such form and
   manner as the Secretary may require, that the duties of the Board under
                      this section have been fulfilled.

              §46.306 Permitted research involving prisoners.

    (a) Biomedical or behavioral research conducted or supported by DHHS
                 may involve prisoners as subjects only if:

     (1) the institution responsible for the conduct of the research has
     certified to the Secretary that the Institutional Review Board has
     approved the research under §46.305 of this subpart; and

     (2) in the judgment of the Secretary the proposed research involves
     solely the following:

     (A) study of the possible causes, effects, and processes of
     incarceration, and of criminal behavior, provided that the study
     presents no more than minimal risk and no more than inconvenience to
     the subjects;

     (B) study of prisons as institutional structures or of prisoners
     asincarcerated persons, provided that the study presents no more
     than minimal risk and no more than inconvenience to the subjects;

     (C) research on conditions particularly affecting prisoners as a
     class (for example, vaccine trials and other research on hepatitis
     which is much more prevalent in prisons than elsewhere; and research
     on social and psychological problems such as alcoholism, drug
     addiction, and sexual assaults) provided that the study may proceed
     only after the Secretary has consulted with appropriate experts
     including experts in penology, medicine, and ethics, and published
     notice, in the Federal Register, of his intent to approve such
     research; or

     (D) research on practices, both innovative and accepted, which have
     the intent and reasonable probability of improving the health or
     well-being of the subject. In cases in which those studies require
     the assignment of prisoners in a manner consistent with protocols
     approved by the IRB to control groups which may not benefit from the
     research, the study may proceed only after the Secretary has
     consulted with appropriate experts, including experts in penology,
     medicine, and ethics, and published notice, in the Federal Register,
     of the intent to approve such research.

   (b) Except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, biomedical or
    behavioral research conducted or supported by DHHS shall not involve
                           prisoners as subjects.

   Subpart D Additional DHHS Protections for Children Involved as Subjects
             in Research
             Source: 48 FR 9818, March 8, 1983; 56 FR 28032, June 18, 1991.

                §46.401 To what do these regulations apply?

       (a) This subpart applies to all research involving children as
   subjects, conducted or supported by the Department of Health and Human
                                  Services.

     (1) This includes research conducted by Department employees, except
     that each head of an Operating Division of the Department may adopt
     such nonsubstantive, procedural modifications as may be appropriate
     from an administrative standpoint.

     (2) It also includes research conducted or supported by the
     Department of Health and Human Services outside the United States,
     but in appropriate circumstances, the Secretary may, under paragraph
     (i) of §46.101 of Subpart A, waive the applicability of some or all
     of the requirements of these regulations for research of this type.

       (b) Exemptions at §46.101(b)(1) and (b)(3) through (b)(6) are
    applicable to this subpart. The exemption at §46.101(b)(2) regarding
     educational tests is also applicable to this subpart. However, the
   exemption at §46.101(b)(2) for research involving survey or interview
       procedures or observations of public behavior does not apply to
       research covered by this subpart, except for research involving
       observation of public behavior when the investigator(s) do not
                participate in the activities being observed.

   (c) The exceptions, additions, and provisions for waiver as they appear
   in paragraphs (c) through (i) of §46.101 of Subpart A are applicable to
                                this subpart.

                            §46.402 Definitions.

    The definitions in §46.102 of Subpart A shall be applicable to this
           subpart as well. In addition, as used in this subpart:

     (a) "Children" are persons who have not attained the legal age for
   consent to treatments or procedures involved in the research, under the
      applicable law of the jurisdiction in which the research will be
                                 conducted.

    (b) "Assent" means a child's affirmative agreement to participate in
       research. Mere failure to object should not, absent affirmative
                     agreement, be construed as assent.

    (c) "Permission" means the agreement of parent(s) or guardian to the
              participation of their child or ward in research.

         (d) "Parent" means a child's biological or adoptive parent.

    (e) "Guardian" means an individual who is authorized under applicable
    State or local law to consent on behalf of a child to general medical
                                    care.

                            §46.403 IRB duties.

   In addition to other responsibilities assigned to IRBs under this part,
   each IRB shall review research covered by this subpart and approve only
    research which satisfies the conditions of all applicable sections of
                                this subpart.

         §46.404 Research not involving greater than minimal risk.

      DHHS will conduct or fund research in which the IRB finds that no
     greater than minimal risk to children is presented, only if the IRB
    finds that adequate provisions are made for soliciting the assent of
    the children and the permission of their parents or guardians, as set
                             forth in §46.408.

   §46.405 Research involving greater than minimal risk but presenting the
           prospect of direct benefit to the individual subjects.

     DHHS will conduct or fund research in which the IRB finds that more
      than minimal risk to children is presented by an intervention or
       procedure that holds out the prospect of direct benefit for the
     individual subject, or by a monitoring procedure that is likely to
     contribute to the subject's well-being, only if the IRB finds that:

    (a) the risk is justified by the anticipated benefit to the subjects;

   (b) the relation of the anticipated benefit to the risk is at least as
    favorable to the subjects as that presented by available alternative
                               approaches; and

      (c) adequate provisions are made for soliciting the assent of the
   children and permission of their parents or guardians, as set forth in
                                  §46.408.

   §46.406 Research involving greater than minimal risk and no prospect of
         direct benefit to individual subjects, but likely to yield
     generalizable knowledge about the subject's disorder or condition.

     DHHS will conduct or fund research in which the IRB finds that more
      than minimal risk to children is presented by an intervention or
   procedure that does not hold out the prospect of direct benefit for the
   individual subject, or by a monitoring procedure which is not likely to
     contribute to the well-being of the subject, only if the IRB finds
                                    that:

         (a) the risk represents a minor increase over minimal risk;

   (b) the intervention or procedure presents experiences to subjects that
     are reasonably commensurate with those inherent in their actual or
       expected medical, dental, psychological, social, or educational
                                 situations;

     (c) the intervention or procedure is likely to yield generalizable
    knowledge about the subjects' disorder or condition which is of vital
      importance for the understanding or amelioration of the subjects'
                         disorder or condition; and

   (d) adequate provisions are made for soliciting assent of the children
   and permission of their parents or guardians, as set forth in §46.408.

   §46.407 Research not otherwise approvable which presents an opportunity
    to understand, prevent, or alleviate a serious problem affecting the
                       health or welfare of children.

   DHHS will conduct or fund research that the IRB does not believe meets
        the requirements of §46.404, §46.405, or §46.406 only if:

          (a) the IRB finds that the research presents a reasonable
