http://www.governor.texas.gov/the_office/press/press_releases_files/011602_biotech.htm

   Press Releases


   Press Releases
   News and Information
   Archives
   Speeches
   Official Photos
   Recent Appointments
   Return to Home

     Press Release
     OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR
     Rick Perry
     January 16, 2002

     Contact: Kathy Walt or Gene Acuña
     512-463-1826, 512-463-2000 (Voice) 512-475-3165 (TDD)
     Post Office Box 12428
     Austin, Texas, 78711

Perry Announces Formation of Governor's Council
On Science and Biotechnology Development
Council to Place Texas at Forefront of Biotechnology, Economic Opportunities

     AUSTIN - Governor Rick Perry today announced the formation of the
     Governor's Council on Science and Biotechnology Development. The
     Council will work to create a seamless system of innovation from the
     laboratory to the marketplace in the rapidly developing areas of
     biotechnology - such as biopharmaceutical development,
     bioinformatics, genomics and nanotechnology.

     During an announcement at Ambion, Inc, a successful biotechnology
     firm in Austin, Perry described the Council's mission as one that
     will ultimately bring more research dollars to Texas higher
     education institutions, encourage university researchers to get
     products that advance the quality of life to the market and create
     biotechnology jobs - and growing companies - across Texas.
     "I want the work of the Science and Biotechnology Development
     Council to lead to a more vibrant Texas economy that brings greater
     opportunity to more of our citizens," Perry said. "Biotechnology is
     the wave of the future when it comes to health care, and it means
     limitless opportunity for Texas."

     "The Council on Science and Biotechnology Development will explore
     ways to improve health care, agriculture and technology in Texas
     while creating jobs and ensuring that new discoveries, companies and
     industries come out of Texas schools, Texas laboratories and Texas
     minds."

     Among its responsibilities, Perry has asked the Council to identify
     ways institutions of higher learning can coordinate efforts to
     attract federal research funds. Currently, Texas ranks sixth in
     research funds received from the National Institute of Health, and
     third overall in research expenditures.

     The Council also will develop a strategy to increase research and
     development expenditures in this state, including both private and
     public funds. Perry also urged the council to identify ways to
     commercialize intellectual property that helps turn an idea into a
     marketable medicine or product.

     "It is about finding a gene therapy that will prevent a parent or
     child from dying too young from cancer. It is about making
     improvements to nutrition or the food supply that can enhance our
     health," Perry said. "It is about a better Texas."

     The Council will consist of individuals from across Texas,
     representing the state's best in science and technology, research,
     higher education, and business.

     Perry named Ashley Smith as chairman of the Council. Smith, who is a
     senior advisor on the governor's staff, is a former member of the
     Texas House and serves as chairman of the Southeast Texas
     BioTechnology Park in Houston. He is also president and CEO of the
     Texas Institute for Rehabilitation and Research in Houston.

     As Lieutenant Governor, Perry established the Advisory Council for
     the Digital Economy to help further develop Texas' technology-based
     economy and understand its implications for future growth. Perry has
     compared the opportunities of biotechnology development in Texas to
     the digital technology opportunities in Texas several decades ago,
     which led to an economic boom in the 1990s.


                                    # # #

     Members of Governor's Council On Science And Biotechnology
     Development

     Back to Main Press Release Page

                                 star banner


     Get Acrobat [spacer.png] State of Texas [spacer.png] Texas On Line
            [spacer.png] Access Adobe [spacer.png] Privacy Policy
   Best viewed with Internet Explorer 4.+ or above [spacer.png] ©Office of
    the Governor [spacer.png] The images on the web site are copyrighted
                         and may not be downloaded.
