http://www.savingsbonds.gov/mar/marquotes.htm

   skip to main content
   Savings Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

   In the news with U.S. Savings Bonds
   line divider
   "Since interest rates are low, it was expected that the I Bond rate
   would drop significantly. But this is the first time the fixed rate has
   fallen a full point in a six-month period...
   "Still, the rate is attractive in today's market. Two-year Treasury
   notes are paying 2.46 percent, while five-year notes have a 3.57
   percent yield, and 10-year notes come in at 4.33 percent.
   "I Bonds also fall in line with the national average for the annual
   yield on a five-year CD, which was 4.43 percent last week, according to
   Bankrate.com."
   - The Houston Chronicle, November. 5, 2001

   "Introduced in September 1998, I bonds or inflation-indexed bonds, are
   fairly new and aren't that exciting. They promise a slow and steady
   return instead of immediate riches. But for people who have watched
   their stocks take a beating, boring has a new appeal.
   "'For that portion of your portfolio that you want to be absolutely
   safe, absolutely liquid and very competitive, they're a perfect
   investment,'said Dino DeConcini, who directs financial education for
   the Consumer Federation of America. "'There's nothing that even comes
   close.'"
   - Copley News Service, November 5, 2001

   "...Series I bonds continue to have some appeal, especially to
   investors who are looking to plug a hole in the conservative end of
   their portfolios. At 4.40 percent, Series I bonds still compare
   favorably with five-year certificates of deposit (which recently
   averaged about 4 percent) and money market mutual funds (about 2.23
   percent).
   "Keep in mind, too, that with new Series I bonds, you'll always earn 2
   percentage points over and above the rate of inflation, so they're
   still appealing for investors who want something that'll help them keep
   pace with inflation."
   - Providence Journal-Bulletin, November 4, 2001

   "The newest type of savings bond, the Series I, is aimed at investors
   who want something a little more exciting that the traditional,
   old-fashioned savings bond. Even though the rates were lowered just
   Thursday by 1.5 percentage points, to 4.4 percent, they're still paying
   better than other choices. And they're guaranteed.
   "'I-bonds may be the thing,' said Cleveland financial planner Ken
   Robinson of Practical Financial Planning.
   "I bonds were created three years ago as a secure savings alternative
   for people such as those saving for college or retirement.
   "The current 4.4 percent yield is a combination of a guaranteed 2
   percent fixed rate plus an inflation adjustment that changes every six
   months.
   "'For security, you can't do any better than the U.S. Treasury,'"
   Robinson said.
   "Besides the guarantee against lost principal, the earnings from I
   bonds are exempt from state and local income taxes. Federal taxes can
   be deferred for up to 30 years or until they're redeemed, whichever
   comes first."
   - The Plain Dealer, November 4, 2001

   "U.S. savings bond rates dropped Thursday, reflecting the decline in
   inflation and market interest rates over the last six months.
   "I bonds, whose returns are pegged to the inflation rate, dropped from
   5.92 percent to 4.4 percent. EE bonds dropped from 4.5 percent to 4.07
   percent.
   "The rates are changed every six months, on May 1 and Nov. 1. Savers
   had rushed to buy I bonds during October, to beat Thursday's rate
   decline. Sales were estimated to be at least double the sales of a year
   ago. As of Oct. 25, the last date for which figures are available, $839
   million worth of I bonds had been sold, compared with $440 million for
   all of October 2000.
   "One reason for I bonds' appeal is that they offer a guaranteed return
   at a time when the stock market's performance has been disappointing."
   - The Record (Bergen County, NJ), November 2, 2001

   "Another higher-yielding income vehicle for longer-term income needs is
   the inflation-adjusted savings bond, or "I-bond." This unique treasury
   vehicle pays interest for up to 30 years and offers a base rate based
   on US Treasury securities, plus a bonus rate based on the cost of
   living, calculated from the consumer price index.
   "Although the rates will probably be adjusted downward Thursday, the
   most recent yield was a healthy 5.92 percent. Your principal is
   guaranteed (though income is not) and you can buy them at any financial
   institution. See www.publicdebt.ustreas.gov for more details."
   - Chicago Tribune, October 30, 2001

   "(Seth) Hammer, the Towson University professor, suggests that
   investors on a budget not overlook US savings bonds. "I-bonds are an
   excellent investment," he said. "But most brokers don't recommend them
   because there is no commission involved. You can buy them at any bank.
   "He explained that the I-bonds are guaranteed to keep up with
   inflation. The interest is not taxable until the bond is redeemed. They
   are free of city and state taxes."
   - The Baltimore Sun, October 28, 2001

   "Savings bonds may seem like the stodgiest of investments. But the
   Series I bonds could be a great addition to your portfolio. Like
   inflation-indexed Treasurys, these bonds provide a guaranteed return
   above inflation."
   - The Wall Street Journal, July 24, 2001

   "These are not your grandfather's savings bonds, and the kind of bond
   you are considering will go a long way to determining if it's a good
   investment today and in the future.
   "Savings bonds may be the nation's least sexy investment choice, but in
   times like these, they have a way of looking mighty attractive.
   "They're backed by the full faith and credit of the federal government,
   grow federal tax-deferred and free of state and local taxes, and they
   don't lose money in a down stock market.
   "It's that last part that makes bonds worth discussing now."
   - The Boston Globe, July 18, 2001

   "With inflation-adjusted savings bonds, or I-bonds, your principal is
   safe and your rate is guaranteed to keep up with inflation... I-bonds
   don't provide current income; you don't get a payout until you cash in
   a bond. But that makes them a marvelous tax-deferred savings vehicle:
   You can earn interest for up to 30 years and owe no taxes until you
   redeem the bond."
   - Money, May 2001

   "...(A)n increasing number of investors are turning to the I bond,
   which promises to pay a fixed rate above the rate of inflation for up
   to 30 years, with interest compounding every six months."
   - Sacramento Bee, April 8, 2001

   "Robert Shiller, the Yale University professor...said he thinks
   investors should load up on Series I Savings Bonds. These Treasury
   securities guarantee principal and pay a return that is adjusted twice
   a year for the level of inflation. In other words, they protect
   investors from their fiercest foe: rising prices that destroy
   purchasing power."
   - The Philadelphia Inquirer, March 6, 2001

                                                 Updated December 17, 2001
