http://www.ncd.gov/brochure.pdf

   I Advise the Interagency Disability Coordinat- NCD plays a major role
   in developing disability policy ing Council on priorities for its
   activities and in America. In fact, the agency originally proposed
   review the recommendations of the council for what eventually became
   ADA. legislative and administrative changes. Key issues include
   personal assistance services, health I Prepare and submit to the
   President and care reform, the inclusion of students with disabilities
   Congress an annual report, National Disability in high-quality programs
   in typical neighborhood Policy: A Progress Report. schools, equal
   employment opportunity, community housing, monitoring the
   implementation of ADA, Population Served and improving assistive
   technology, and ensuring that persons with disabilities, including
   minorities, fully Current Activities participate in society. Many
   government agencies deal with issues and programs that affect people
   with disabilities, but National Council on Disability NCD is the only
   federal agency charged with 1331 F Street, NW, Suite 850 addressing,
   analyzing, and making recommenda- Washington, DC 20004-1107 tions on
   issues of public policy that affect people (202) 272-2004 Voice with
   disabilities regardless of age, disability type, (202) 272-2074 TT
   perceived employment potential, economic need, (202) 272-2022 Fax
   functional ability, veteran status, or other indi- http://www.ncd.gov
   vidual circumstance. NCD recognizes its unique opportunity to
   facilitate independent living, community integra- tion, and employment
   opportunities for people with disabilities by ensuring an informed and
   coordinated approach to address their concerns and eliminate barriers
   to their active participation in community and family life. and
   Rehabilitation Research, and other Background and Mission officials of
   federal agencies regarding ways to promote equal opportunity, economic
   self-sufficiency, independent living, and inclusion and integration
   into all aspects of T he National Council on Disability (NCD) was
   initially established in 1978 as an advisory board within the
   Department of Education. The council is society for Americans with
   disabilities. composed of 15 members, appointed by the President of the
   United States and confirmed by the U.S. Senate. The Rehabilitation Act
   Amendments of 1984 transformed I Provide Congress with advice,
   recommen- dations, legislative proposals, and other NCD into an
   independent agency. information that NCD or Congress deems appropriate.
   The overall purpose of the agency is to promote policies, programs,
   practices, I and procedures that guarantee equal opportunity for all
   people with disabilities, Gather information about the imple-
   mentation, effectiveness, and impact of regardless of the nature or
   severity of the disability, and to empower them the Americans with
   Disabilities Act to achieve economic self-sufficiency, independent
   living, and inclusion and (ADA) of 1990. integration into all aspects
   of society. I Advise the President, Congress, the Commissioner of the
   Rehabilitation Specific Duties Services Administration, the Assistant
   Secretary for Special Education and The statutory mandate of NCD
   includes the following duties: Rehabilitative Services in the Depart-
   ment of Education, and the Director of I Review and evaluate federal
   policies, pro- I Review and evaluate emerging federal, state, the
   National Institute on Disability and grams, practices, and procedures
   concerning local, and private sector policy issues that affect
   Rehabilitation Research on the develop- people with disabilities,
   including programs people with disabilities, including the need for
   ment of programs to be carried out under established or assisted under
   the Rehabilita- and coordination of adult services, access to the
   Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. tion Act of 1973, as amended,
   and the personal assistance services, school reform efforts I
   Developmental Disabilities Assistance and and the impact of these
   efforts on persons with Advise the Commissioner on the policies Bill of
   Rights Act. disabilities, access to health care, and policies that and
   conduct of the Rehabilitation Services operate as disincentives for
   individuals to seek Administration. I Review and evaluate all statutes
   and regula- and retain employment. I tions pertaining to federal
   programs that Make recommendations to the Director of assist people
   with disabilities, to assess their I Make recommendations to the
   President, the National Institute on Disability and effectiveness in
   meeting the needs of these Congress, the Secretary of Education, the
   Rehabilitation Research on research affect- people. Director of the
   National Institute on Disability ing people with disabilities.
