http://www2.usmint.gov/about_the_mint/



      The United States Mint What's New FAQs Search Mint Tours
      www.usmint.gov                         Serving America Since 1792

                               About The Mint
                              Director's Office
                                   Mission
                           Strategic Business Plan
                                Annual Report
                             History of The Mint
                               Mint Facilities
                               Coin Production
                             Coin Specifications
                             Collector's Corner
                                  Fun Facts
                                Screensavers
                                 Mint Police
                               Product Catalog
                                Mint Programs
                               About The Mint
                                  Pressroom
                                Join Our Team
                               Privacy Policy
                               Take Our Survey
                            h.i.p. pocket change

                            Accessibility Cookies


                               About The Mint


   Since Congress created the United States Mint on April 2, 1792, it has
   grown to a Fortune 500-sized manufacturing and international marketing
   enterprise with more than $3.7 billion in annual revenues and 2,800
   employees; and is the world's largest manufacturer of coins, medals,
   and coin-based consumer products.

   Mission

   The primary mission of the U.S. Mint is to produce an adequate volume
   of circulating coinage for the nation to conduct its trade and
   commerce. Historically, circulating coin production has varied between
   14 and 20 billion coins annually. With the introduction of the 50 State
   Quarter™ Program and the Golden Dollar, we have experienced annual
   production has increased to 22-27 billion coins a year. In addition to
   producing coins, the U.S. Mint has other responsibilities, including:
     * Distributing U.S. coins to the Federal Reserve banks and branches.
     * Maintaining physical custody and protection of the Nation's $100
       billion of U.S. gold and silver assets.
     * Producing proof and uncirculated coins, commemorative coins, and
       medals for sale to the general public.
     * Manufacturing and selling platinum, gold, and silver bullion coins.
     * Oversight of production facilities in Denver, Philadelphia, San
       Francisco and West Point, N.Y., as well as the U.S. Bullion
       Depository at Ft. Knox, Kentucky.
     * Receiving, redeeming, and processing mutilated coins.

   Functions of the U.S. Mint's facilities

   U.S. Mint Headquarters, Washington, D.C.:  Policy formulation and
   administrative guidance; program management; research and development;
   marketing operations; customer services and order processing; operation
   of the Union Station sales center; Business Unit Management, and all
   www.usmint.gov Web site services.

   Philadelphia Mint, Pennsylvania:  All engraving for U.S. coins and
   medals; the manufacture of medal and coin dies; the manufacture of
   coins of all denominations for general circulation; the manufacture of
   regular uncirculated coin sets; the manufacture of commemorative coins
   authorized by Congress; production of medals; conducting public tours
   and maintenance of the facility's sales center.

   Denver Mint, Colorado:  The manufacture of coins of all denominations
   for general circulation; the manufacture of miniature medals; the
   manufacture of coin dies; storage of gold and silver bullion;
   manufacture of regular uncirculated coin sets; manufacture of
   commemorative coins authorized by Congress; conducting of public tours
   and operation of the facility's sales center.

   San Francisco Mint, California:
   Manufacture of regular proof coin sets in clad and silver; the
   manufacture of commemorative coins authorized by Congress.

   West Point Mint, New York:
   Manufacture of all uncirculated and proof one-ounce silver bullion
   coins, all sizes of the uncirculated and proof American Eagle gold
   bullion and platinum bullion coins; manufacture of all silver, gold,
   platinum, and bi-metallic commemorative coins authorized by Congress;
   storage of silver, gold, and platinum.

   U.S. Bullion Depository, Fort Knox, Kentucky:  Storage of U.S. gold
   bullion.

   Employment

   An innovative, self-funding organization within the federal government,
   the United States Mint offers exciting career opportunities. For
   information about current job vacancies with the United States Mint,
   please visit our Join Our Team page.

   Want to know more? Just select from the links above to explore the
   mint's history, learn fun facts, find out about how coins are made, and
   plan a tour of the mint facilities in Philadelphia and Denver.

   For information about U.S. paper currency, please contact the Bureau of
   Engraving and Printing.


  Terms of Use   ||   FOIA   ||   Site Map   ||   Contact Us
  Portions © 1998-2001.  The U.S. Mint.  All Rights Reserved.

                                                                                                                         Sep 24, 2001
                                                                                                                              [buwb3]

                     web server   buweb3
                    server time   Jan 30, 2002 @ 09:24:00
                   adjusted now   Jan 30, 2002 @ 12:24:00
