http://shipwrecks.slc.ca.gov/Privacy_Conditions/Conditions_of_Use.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                            Shipwrecks Home
                            CSLC Main Web
                            Contact Us
                            Suggestions/Comments



   CONDITIONS OF USE



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA




   Thank you for visiting the State of California's web site and reviewing
   our Use Policy. You should also be aware that the State has a privacy
   policy, also available on this web site. The State wants you know about
   the collection, use, security, and access to information that may be
   obtained through use of the State's web portal. By visiting this web
   site, you are accepting the policies and practices described in this
   Notice. This notice covers the following topics:
     * Personal Information and Choice
     * A Special Note about Children
     * Information Collected and How it is Used
     * What Happens to Information You Submit to Us
     * Use of Internet Request for Assistance Form Information
     * Surveys
     * If You Send Us E-mail
     * Order Forms
     * Public Disclosure
     * Automatic Collection of Information/Cookies
     * Security
     * Links to Other Sites
     * Limitation of Liability
     * Ownership

   Please note that this Use Policy is subject to change without notice,
   and that it reflects the State's currently business practices. This
   policy is dated December 7, 2000.

   Also note that each department within the State may have additional
   privacy and use policies specific to the mission and needs of their
   work. Be sure to review those policies as you access additional sites
   within the State.
   PERSONAL INFORMATION AND CHOICE
   "Personal information" is information about a natural person that
   identifies or describes an individual, including, but not limited to,
   his or her name, social security number, physical description, home
   address, home telephone number, education, financial matters, and
   medical or employment history, readily identifiable to that specific
   individual. A domain name or Internet Protocol address is not
   considered personal information, however, it is considered
   "electronically collected personal information".

   According to Government Code ยง 11015.5, "Electronically collected
   personal information" means any information that is maintained by an
   agency that identifies or describes an individual user, including, but
   not limited to, his or her name, social security number, physical
   description, home address, home telephone number, education, financial
   matters, medical or employment history, password, electronic mail
   address, and information that reveals any network location or identity,
   but excludes any information manually submitted to a state agency by a
   user, whether electronically or in written form, and information on or
   relating to individuals who are users, serving in a business capacity,
   including, but not limited to, business owners, officers, or principals
   of that business.

   "Electronically collected personal information" we automatically
   collect includes your domain name or Internet Protocol address, and
   statistical information about which web pages you visit. If you
   voluntarily participate in an activity that asks for specific
   information (i.e. completing a request for assistance, personalizing
   the content of the web site, sending an e-mail or participating in a
   survey) more detailed data will be collected. If you choose not to
   participate in these activities, your choice will in no way affect your
   ability to use any other feature of the web site.

   If any type of personal information is requested on the web site or
   volunteered by the user, state law, including Information Practices Act
   of 1977, Government Code Section 11015.5, and the federal Privacy Act
   of 1974 may protect it. However, this information may be a public
   record once you provide it, and may be subject to public inspection and
   copying if not otherwise protected by federal or state law.

   Additionally, departments and agencies of the State of California are
   required to adhere to the Privacy Policy which is also accessible on
   this web site. Please see Department of General Services Management
   Memo 00-14, effective January 1, 2001.
   A SPECIAL NOTE ABOUT CHILDREN
   Children are not eligible to use services that require submission of
   personal information and we require that minors (under the age of 18)
   do not submit any personal information to us. This includes submitting
   personal information to the State as part of a user profile or
   personalization profile. If you are a minor, you can use these services
   only if used together with your parents or guardians. If you are a
   minor you should seek guidance from your parents.

   If the state decides to begin collecting personal information from
   children, it will notify parents that it is being requested, disclose
   the reasons for collecting it, and disclose our intended use for it.
   The state will seek parental consent before collecting any personally
   identifiable information. If it does collect it, parents may request
   information on the type of data being collected, view their child's
   information and, if they choose, prohibit the state from making further
   use of their child's information. The state will not provide personal
   information about children to third parties.
   INFORMATION COLLECTED AND HOW IT IS USED
   We do collect personal information directly from individuals who
   volunteer to use some of our services. Collection of this information
   is required to deliver the specific services, but use of these services
   is voluntary.

   If you do nothing during your visit to the web site, but browse or
   download information, we automatically collect and store the following
   information about your visit:
    1. The Internet Protocol Address and domain name used but not the
       e-mail address. The Internet Protocol address is a numerical
       identifier assigned either to your Internet service provider or
       directly to your computer. We use the Internet Protocol Address to
       direct Internet traffic to you and generate statistics used in the
       management of this site;
    2. The type of browser and operating system you used;
    3. The date and time you visited this site;
    4. The web pages or services you accessed at this site;
    5. The web site you visited prior to coming to this web site;
    6. The web site you visit as you leave this web site;
    7. If you downloaded a form, the form that was downloaded.

   The information we automatically collect or store is used to improve
   the content of our web services and to help us understand how people
   are using our services. This information does not identify you
   personally and is used for gathering web site statistics. The
   information we automatically collect and store in our logs about your
   visit helps us to analyze our web site to continually improve the value
   of the materials available. Our web site logs do not identify a visitor
   by personal information, and we make no attempt to link other web sites
   with the individuals that browse the State's web site.

   Government Code ยง 11015.5 (6) prohibits all state agencies from
   distributing or selling any electronically collected personal
   information as defined above, about users to any third party without
   the permission of the user. The State does not sell any "electronically
   collected personal information". Any distribution of "electronically
   collected personal information" will be solely for the purposes for
   which it was provided to us.

   The State may provide or distribute certain lists and statistical
   reports of regulatory information as provided by law, but no personal
   information is sold or distributed and all relevant legal protections
   still apply to the State's web sites.
   WHAT HAPPENS TO INFORMATION YOU SUBMIT TO US?
   If you choose to submit information to us the information will be
   transmitted through secure lines to our departmental database. Any
   private information will only be used for the purposes for which it was
   provided and will not be shared with another entity except as
   prescribed by law. Please see our Privacy Policy for additional
   information.
   USE OF INTERNET REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE FORM INFORMATION
   Any information you provide to us will only be shared with entities
   involved in your case as necessary. Information you provide may be
   included with other consumers' information to be used for statistical
   reporting, trending data, and/or investigative actions. For example, we
   may need to retain information that becomes part of an enforcement
   action or consumer complaint case for a period of time after the
   closing date of the case.

   If you provide us with information regarding an issue that does not
   fall within our regulatory jurisdiction, we may refer your information
   to the appropriate local, state, or federal agency on your behalf.
   SURVEYS
   If during your visit to the State's web site you participate in a
   survey or send an e-mail, the following additional information will be
   collected:
    1. The e-mail address and contents of the e-mail; and
    2. Information volunteered in response to the survey.

   The information collected is not limited to text characters and may
   include audio, video, and graphic information formats you send us.

   The information is retained in accordance with Government Code ยง
   11015.5.
   IF YOU SEND US E-MAIL
   You may choose to provide us with personal information, as in e-mail
   with a comment or question. We use the information to improve our
   service to you or to respond to your request. Sometimes we forward your
   e-mail to other State employees who may be better able to help you, and
   this staff may be employed by a different agency within the State.
   Except for authorized law enforcement investigations or as required by
   law, we do not share our e-mail with any other organizations.

   We use your e-mail to respond appropriately. This may be to respond to
   you, to address issues you identify, to further improve our web site,
   or to forward the e-mail to another agency for appropriate action.
   ORDER FORMS
   If you place an order with us, we request information from the user on
   our order form. A user must provide contact information (like name and
   shipping address) and financial information (like credit card number,
   expiration date]. This information is used for billing purposes and to
   fill your order/request. If we have trouble processing an order, this
   contact information is used to get in touch with you.
   PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
   In the State of California, laws exist to ensure that government is
   open and that the public has a right to access appropriate records and
   information possessed by state government. At the same time, there are
   exceptions to the public's right to access public records. These
   exceptions serve various needs including maintaining the privacy of
   individuals. Both state and federal laws provide exceptions.

   All information collected at this site becomes public record that may
   be subject to inspection and copying by the public, unless an exemption
   in law exists. In the event of a conflict between this Use Policy and
   the Public Records Act, the Information Practices Act or other law
   governing the disclosure of records, the Public Records Act, the
   Information Practices Act or other applicable law will control.
   PERSONAL INFORMATION
   Under Government Code ยง 11015.5, if you choose you may have any
   personal information collected about you discarded without reuse or
   distribution, provided we are contacted in a timely fashion.
   AUTOMATIC COLLECTION OF INFORMATION/COOKIES
   Cookies are simple text files stored on your computer by your web
   browser. The main State portal does not use cookies to maintain
   personalization, however some departmental applications may.

   The State makes every attempt to avoid the use of cookies. When needed
   to maintain the functionality of an application, unlike the common
   usage of cookies, the State only uses cookies during the session in
   which you access our interactive applications.

   Cookies created on your computer by using this web site do not contain
   "personal information" and do not compromise your privacy or security.
   We use the cookie feature only to store a randomly generated
   identifying temporary tag on your computer. You can refuse the cookie
   or delete the cookie file from your computer by using any of the widely
   available methods. However, if you turn your cookie option off you may
   not be able to access some of the features in our interactive
   applications.
   SECURITY
   The State, as developer and manager of this web site, has taken several
   steps to safeguard the integrity of its telecommunications and
   computing infrastructure, including but not limited to authentication,
   monitoring, auditing, and encryption. Security measures have been
   integrated into the design, implementation and day-to-day practices of
   the entire State operating environment as part of its continuing
   commitment to risk management. This information should not be construed
   in any way as giving business, legal, or other advice, or warranting as
   fail proof, the security of information provided via the State's
   supported web site. The technical standards governing security are
   enforced by the Department of Information Technology.
   LINKS TO OTHER SITES
   Our web site has links to sites we felt might be useful to you and
   which may provide services. When you link to another site, you are no
   longer on our site and are subject to the privacy policy of the new
   site.

   This web site and the information it contains are provided as a public
   service by the State of California. This system is monitored to ensure
   proper operation, to verify the functioning of applicable security
   features, and for comparable purposes. Anyone using this system
   expressly consents to such monitoring. Unauthorized attempts to modify
   any information stored on this system, to defeat or circumvent security
   features, or to utilize this system for other than its intended
   purposes are prohibited and may result in criminal prosecution.
   LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
   The State attempts to maintain the highest accuracy of content on its
   web site. Any errors, or omissions should be reported for
   investigation.

   The State makes no claims, promises or guarantees about the absolute
   accuracy, completeness, or adequacy of the contents of this web site
   and expressly disclaims liability for errors and omissions in the
   contents of this web site. No warranty of any kind, implied, expressed
   or statutory, including but not limited to the warranties of
   non-infringement of third party rights, title, merchantability, fitness
   for a particular purpose and freedom from computer virus, is given with
   respect to the contents of this web site or its hyperlinks to other
   Internet resources. Reference in this web site to any specific
   commercial products, processes, or services, or the use of any trade,
   firm or corporation name is for the information and convenience of the
   public, and does not constitute endorsement, recommendation, or
   favoring by the State of California, or their employees or agents.

   This Use Policy is subject to change without notice.

   OWNERSHIP
   In general, information presented on this web site, unless otherwise
   indicated, is considered in the public domain. It may be distributed or
   copied as permitted by law. However, the State does make use of
   copyrighted data (e.g., photographs) which may require additional
   permissions prior to your use. Furthermore, the unique branding of the
   site and various official seals and marks may not be used without
   permission of the State. In order to use any information on this web
   site not owned or created by the State you must seek permission
   directly from the owning (or holding) sources. The State shall have the
   unlimited right to use for any purpose, free of any charge, all
   information submitted via this site except those submissions made under
   separate legal contract. The State shall be free to use, for any
   purpose, any ideas, concepts, or techniques contained in information
   provided through this site.


                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
