http://www.accessamerica.gov/docs/saying.html

   [USEMAP:headsaying.gif]
   [USEMAP:leftnavs.gif]

   Disclaimer:
   Commercial online publications are writing about our expanding digital
   government. Access America E-Gov E-Zine links to stories that fit our
   theme as a service to our customers. The stories are for information
   only and do not imply endorsement of products and services.

   [supportegov.gif] Hart-Teeter Poll: Americans Support E-Gov
   Americans feel that e-government will not only change the way they
   relate to government as customers of government services, but also as
   citizens of a democracy.

   [crimewatch.gif] Spies Like Us
   Want the same global information that spies all over the world use?
   Chosen this month by Yahoo! Internet Life as a Top 50 Incredibly Useful
   Site, this CIA web resource offers the best in public intelligence.
   From national commerce to international controversy, and from
   Afghanistan through Zimbabwe, the Central Intelligence Agency has it
   all at your fingertips.

   [bloodpressure.gif] Managing Your Health Online
   "Know the source of the information," warns Jay Siwek in his "One Last
   Piece of Advice" column in the Health section of The Washington Post on
   April 25. He includes six government sites you can trust when it comes
   to your health.

   [emall.gif] Defense Streamlines Procurement with Its Emall
   The Defense Logistics Agency is rooting for its Emall to streamline
   buying and save the taxpayer big bucks. Washington Post staff writer
   Sarah Schafer tells the story of government procurement via the
   Internet.

   [dietsupp.gif] Supplemental Information about Dietary Supplements
   Information about vitamin and mineral supplements is everywhere, but is
   it accurate? Writer Sally Squire answers the question in The Washington
   Post's Health Section. Here are her recommendations for helpful dot.gov
   sites.

   [pccomp.gif]

   [dotgov.gif] Business Research? Don't Forget "Dot-gov"
   Writing for PC Computing magazine, a freelance writer provides an
   impressive array of free websites to help small businesses answer some
   of their most challenging research questions. Many sites in the list
   are commercial, but some industrial - strength federal sites made the
   cut.

   [washpost.gif]

   [bomb.gif] Safe Online Shopping
   Working from a "war room," Consumer Product Safety Commission
   investigators surf commercial sites and news groups to find recalled,
   illegal, and potentially dangerous products that are being sold on the
   Internet, reports The Washington Post's Consummate Consumer Don
   Oldenburg.
   Federal Outdoor Sites Featured in The Washington Post
   Three federal websites that appeal to outdoor enthusiasts were featured
   in a special report to The Washington Post Weekend.

   [tray.gif] McDonald's Trayliners Promote Government Services
   Patrons who decide to eat in instead of getting their meals "to go" at
   McDonald's may also notice something new -- trayliners that list
   critical telephone numbers and websites for easy access to basic
   government services.

   [CIO5050.gif]

   [datatown15.gif] NIH's Center for Information
   Technology's Website Gets Award
   Last year, this National Institutes of Health website won a CIO Web
   Business 50/50 Award as one of the top 50 Internet or 50
   intranet/extranet business sites. The site packs a lot of punch to help
   NIH researchers and administrators manage grants and conduct NIH
   business.

   [mega_aol_banner.gif]
   [header_2.gif] AOL's Government Guide Top Picks
   AOL's new GovernmentGuide site features Access America Online Magazine
   as a "top pick." Site visitors have also given 5-star ratings to Access
   America for Students, the General Service Administration's Consumer
   Information Center, and the Social Security Administration's Top 10
   Services.


   [accessmaglogo.gif]

   [inscollage.gif] Immigration and
   Naturalization Service Online
   Access Internet Magazine recently awarded the Immigration and
   Naturalization Service website four stars -- its top rating. This new,
   improved website is a critical part of the agency's efforts to put the
   "S" of service back into INS.


   [gcn__logo_dotcom.gif]

   [dreamingabe.jpg] Electronic Commerce
   Vice President Gore's vision for Access America is using the Internet
   to provide government services electronically to anyone who wants them,
   anywhere. Government Computer News assembles a montage of stories and
   sidebars to illustrate what federal agencies are doing to make
   government e-commerce a reality.

   VA Will Extend Its Benefits Reach Via a VPN [gcnstaff.jpg]
   The Veterans Benefits Administration is testing a virtual private
   network (VPN) as a way to set up a worldwide network of remote sites to
   provide veterans with benefits information, according to Government
   Computer News.



   [698flag.gif]

   CIO Report: Government Must Work to Attract IT Workers
   Federal Computer Week reviews the CIO Council's recommendations on what
   the federal government must do to attract and keep information
   technology workers.

   Access America Online Magazine Gets a Thumbs Up
   Federal Computer Week says that Access America Online Magazine presents
   appealing, real-life case studies on how federal agencies are using
   information technology to help deliver services to the public

   Kids Next Door
   [kidspage.gif] "We'll put together, visually delightful- the kids pages
   are a buried treasure," says Joanne M. Riley, Educational Technology
   Services Consultant in Needham, Massachusetts. TeacherNet selected
   "Kids Next Door" as a site of the week honoree in early 1999.
   TeacherNet is an online network sponsored by Highlights for Children,
   Inc.

   [justice.gif] Lawyers Like This Site Best
   The Government Printing Office's website, GPO Access, was chosen "Best
   Overall Government" by Lawyersonline.com, according to the April 1999
   issue of "Chicago Lawyer." Lawyers also selected GPO Access as "Best of
   the Web" in the "Legal Research, Laws" category.

   [usiaflag.gif] USIA Website Wins Praise as Business Site
   The Dow Jones Business Directory cites the US Information Agency's
   domestic homepage for its exceptional value to readers, especially
   business professionals.

   NEW YORK TIMES:
   Citizens' Electronic Inquiries
   Get Governments' Attention
   [circuit.gif] "Goodbye, phone-menu torment. Adios, disembodied
   operators taking calls in the order received. A revolution in customer
   service is emerging on the government pages of the Web," reports Rita
   Beamish in the New York Times.


   Gore's Virtual Government Unveiled
   [zdnet.gif] Morley Winograd, the Vice President's senior policy
   advisor, gave a preview of government 21st century style. He said the
   primary goal of the National Partnership for Reinventing Government is
   to reinvent government. "The word 'reinventing' is designed to show
   that we want to change the culture and the process of the organizations
   in our government -- and to do so through the use of information
   technology."

   [pcweekhead.gif]

   The Web Helps EPA Clean Up Piles of Data
   [envirofacts.gif] PC Week Online, March 15, 1999--What comes out of the
   tap when you turn on the faucet for a cold glass of water? The
   Environmental Protection Agency's Envirofacts warehouse can tell you
   that and a lot more: By plugging in a ZIP code at the EPA's site, you
   can get information not only on drinking water, but also on Superfund
   sites, air pollution, toxic releases, hazardous waste and water
   discharge permits. EPA has the number three spot on PC Week Online's
   top 100 Websites in Government and Education.

   PC WEEK ONLINE Picks 100 Innovators in Government and Education
   March 15, 1999--This week's installment of PC Week's year-long
   Fast-Track project shows that public college and university systems,
   state governments, and, yes, even federal agencies are beginning to
   shed their IT-laggard image and to successfully use emerging
   technologies in creative ways to fundamentally change how they deliver
   information and services to taxpayers, employees and students. Ten
   federal agency sites are on the list.

   Four Government Websites Recognized by CIO Web Business
   [CIO5050.gif] Congratulations to the Tennessee Valley Authority's
   National Recreation Area, the state of Florida's Government Services
   Direct, and the cities of Colorado Springs and Indianapolis.


   [ciowblogo.gif] CIO WebBusiness 50/50 Winners for 1999
   Five government agencies are among the CIO WebBusiness 50/50 winners
   for 1999. Congratulations to the Air Force Research Laboratory, Florida
   Department of Management Services, Massachusetts Registry of Motor
   Vehicles, National Institutes of Health's Center for Information
   Technology, and the Nebraska Dept. of Economic Development.

   Making a Federal Case of IT
   [tightrope.gif] Being a federal Chief Information Officer is something
   of a high-wire act, says CIO Online. But these CIOs are relishing the
   challenge of balancing Y2K, data and network security, IT capital
   planning, e-commerce, outsourcing, and infrastructure and architecture
   planning.

   [yahoo.gif]

   Four Federal Organizations
   Made 1999 Yahoo! Internet Life
   List of 50 Most Incredibly Useful Sites
   Yahoo! Internet Life's annual roundup of the Web's most useful
   addresses includes sites from the Naval Observatory, Centers for
   Disease Control, and United States Postal Service, plus the one-stop
   site with statistics from 70 agencies. FedStats is maintained by the
   Federal Interagency Council on Statistical Policy.

   U.S. State Department Has Best Travel Advisory
   [travel.gif] In its June 1999 issue, Yahoo! Internet Life named the
   State Department's Travel Warnings and Consular Information a Gold Star
   Site. "Nothing ruins a vacation like ending up in a Turkish prison or
   coming home with a touch of malaria," Yahoo! reports. "Knowing what
   travel restrictions may apply where you're headed, along with basic
   medical and crime information, can help keep your trip hassle-free."

   Dodge Disasters with FEMA
   [tornado.gif] Natural disasters can strike anywhere, but few people are
   ever prepared for them, says the Incredibly Useful Sites picker in the
   May 1999 issue of Yahoo Internet Life. "Consult the Federal Emergency
   Management Agency's Library, and you won't be caught off guard. Its
   Preparedness and Training section features articles on readying
   yourself for (and surviving) earthquakes, mud slides, hurricanes,
   fires, and even nuclear-power-plant catastrophes."

   Six Federal Sites Made Yahoo Internet Life's "Best of the Best Sites
   98"
   Kudos to the six federal websites that made the list of 98 "Best of the
   Best" in 1998 in the January 1999 issue of Yahoo Internet Life.

     Best Guide to Starting Your Own Business--
   [smallbusiness1.gif] Small Business Administration Site has a "start-up
   kit with a walk through of each step on the road to running your own
   business."

     [fw2.gif] Best Government Information Site--
   FedWorld "A terrific link between the average citizen and that monolith
   known as the U.S. government."

     Another Best Government Information Site--
   [tomanim3.gif] Thomas "Best place to go to find out the status of
   pending bills, read the Congressional Record, learn how laws are
   made..."

     Best Disease-Information Site--
   [cdc4.gif] The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Will tell you
   the facts "straight, with the statistics and scientific data to back it
   up."

     Best Tax Site--
   [irslogo5.gif] The Digital Daily "Best place to find and download even
   the most elusive of the hundreds of forms, booklets, instructions, and
   work sheets that the IRS generates."

     Best Astronomy Site--
   [hotnasa.gif] National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).
   "Shuttle briefings, astronautical news, and pages upon pages of
   planetary images from space are all delivered directly to the
   Earth-bound fans of the space program."

   AskERIC to Get Educational Resources
   [applelogo.jpg] Educator Christopher Hopey, a guest reviewer in Yahoo
   Magazine (Dec. 1998), gave a 4-star review (THE BEST) to AskERIC, a
   component of the Educational Resources Information Center. ERIC is a
   federally-funded national education-related information system that
   includes 16 subject-oriented clearinghouses. Teachers, counselors, and
   parents can find lesson plans, articles, book lists and almost any
   resources they want on AskERIC. If they can't, they can ask Eric by
   e-mail and get an answer in two business days. Hopey also gave four
   stars to the Department of Education's website. "Not only does the site
   have almost every government policy document related to education,"
   Hopey said, "it also has useful information on Direct Loans, a database
   of free governmental education-based materials, and an online
   publication series for parents..."

   [sm-logo.gif]

   Weather Service Debuts
   New Forecasting System
   GovExec.com reports on a new Advanced Weather Interactive Processing
   System (AWIPS). It collects information from weather data sources,
   analyzes the data, and then zaps it to work stations, where weather
   forecasters prepare weather outlooks for transmission. It's the
   beginning of a "no surprise" weather service.
   The Wonder Years
   Now, federal Web sites have entered their cyber-adolescence, says
   govexec.com. Federal webmasters are losing their braces and redesigning
   their Internet faces. They are learning that what's on the outside
   isn't as important as what's on the inside--solid information for
   citizens in search of quick answers.

   govexec.com Picks Best Feds on the Web
   Staff at govexec.com searched the web in 1998 to glean a listing of 15
   federal sites they thought "went above and beyond the typical home
   page." We think they're wonderful, too. These aren't just pretty
   webfaces. Many sites really do something to serve customers.

   The Feds and the Net
   Net Guru Esther Dyson shared her thoughts on the government's role in
   the ever-expanding world of the Net.

   GovExec Reports:
   Navy, GSA Push Smart Card Technology
   The General Services Administration and Navy want federal workers to
   have smart cards, "computers that fit in your pocket." For more
   information on smart cards, visit GSA's smart card website.

   Federal Computer Week Says:

   Visiting Naval Observatory Page Is Time Well Spent
   [clock.gif] "To synchronize your watch to 'official' U.S. time, visit
   the home page of the Time Service Department at the U.S. Naval
   Observatory in Washington, D.C., said Federal Computer Week's Bob
   Brewin. "The utilitarian home page offers the current time, but click
   through to the pages within, and you will enter a World Wide Web site
   that delights with facts about the inexorable ticking of the clocks
   that too often rule people's lives."

   Using Technology to Reinvent for Results
   [morley125157.jpg] As director of the National Partnership for
   Reinventing Government, Morley Winograd serves as custodian of the Vice
   President's vision to empower citizens through technology. Winograd
   said Access America, which is a core NPR plan to deploy commonly
   requested services online through kiosks and similar systems, is the
   best example in the program of putting technology into service for the
   public interest.


   TAXi Delivers Teen-Friendly Tax Info
   [taxicab110069.jpg] Dude, IRS has come up with one cool site for teens.
   It's sure to be a hit with parents and teachers, too. Among many
   topics, teens with jobs will learn how to file their taxes
   electronically. Way to go, IRS. We like your new emphasis on service
   and taxpayer assistance. After all, service is almost your middle name.

   [nasanewst.gif] Science@NASA Wins at 1999 Webby Awards
   The International Academy of the Digital Arts and Sciences announced
   that web readers had awarded the 1999 Webby Awards People's Voice Award
   for "Best Science Site" to Science@NASA.
