http://supercon.lbl.gov/home.html

     For almost two decades, the Berkeley Lab Superconducting Magnet Group
     has been among the world leaders in the development of high field
     superconducting magnets. Supported by the Department of Energy, our
     vertically integrated R&D approach offers expertise "from melt to
     magnet" -- that is, at all phases from basic development of improved
     superconducting materials to evaluation of finished prototype magnets.

     Previous magnets have pushed to the edge of NbTi superconductor that
     dominates current magnet technology. Using this material, fields are
     limited to slightly more than 10 Tesla at superfluid helium
     temperatures. To achieve fields above 10 Tesla requires the use of A15
     compounds, the most practical and available of which is Nb3Sn. The new
     high temperature superconductors (HTS), while exhibiting excellent high
     field properties, are not considered practical for near term use in an
     accelerator magnet. However, our materials group is participating in
     the development of these materials for possible integration into the
     magnet development program. All of the magnets we have built recently
     use Nb3Sn, including the D20 magnet that achieved a record breaking
     accelerator dipole field of 13.5 Tesla in 1997.

     Our program in superconducting magnets (and the cable, wire, and basic
     materials that go into them) focuses on aspects that are of general
     benefit to the future of high-energy physics, including technologies
     for a Very Large Hadron Collider or Muon Collider/Neutrino Factory. Its
     general theme is the quest for higher fields, with cost in mind, of
     course, since superconducting magnets make up a large fraction of the
     cost of a large collider.

     Aside from the obvious applications of high field dipoles and
     quadrupoles in particle accelerators, pushing the limits of materials
     under the extreme conditions of high field and large forces has
     benefits for lower field applications of this technology as well. As is
     the case in other areas of research, exploring the technological
     frontier expands the definition of "practical".

     The fabrication techniques, design and analysis tools that we are
     developing in pursuit of higher fields can be applied to the design and
     rapid prototyping of all types of superconducting magnets, from
     solenoids to undulators. Interaction with private industry as well as
     with universities and other laboratories is a vital part of our
     activities. Even when the goal is a magnet design for a particle
     accelerator, industrial partnership is important because the sheer size
     of today's large colliders mandates industrial production. But in many
     areas, especially in basic materials research and development, our work
     goes beyond "technology transfer" and into the realm of genuine two-way
     collaboration.

     Stephen Gourlay
     Program Leader, Superconducting Magnets
     March 2001
