http://www.nhq.nrcs.usda.gov/NRI/1997/

   Natural Resources Conservation Service USDA
   National Resources Inventory

     Introduction

     The NRI Process

     Background

     Data Gathering

     Statistical Design

     Statistical Estimation

     Glossary

     NRI Results

     National Results

     Maps,Facts,&Figures

     State Information

     Obtain Data NEW!

     NRI In The News

     Contact Us

National Resources Inventory

Introduction

   The National Resources Inventory (NRI) is a statistically based sample
   of land use and natural resource conditions and trends on U.S.
   nonfederal lands. It is the most comprehensive database of its kind
   ever attempted anywhere in the world.

   The Natural Resources Conservation Service's program for NRI serves as
   the Federal Government's principal source of information on the status,
   condition, and trends of soil, water, and related resources in the
   United States. The assessment of a nation's natural resources and
   environmental condition provided by the NRI requires a nationally
   consistent database that allows for manipulation of various parameters
   in order to make accurate assessments. For these manipulations and
   subsequent analyses to be useful for public policy considerations, the
   NRI database

     * has a high degree of reliability,
     * looks at the natural resources over a period of time, and
     * permit analyses at national, regional, and local levels.

   The NRI is unique because
     * it provides a nationally consistent database for all nonfederal
       lands,
     * it features data gathered and monitored in 1982, 1987, 1992, and
       1997 by thousands of technical and natural resource data collection
       experts, and
     * it has a direct correlation with soils data, which permits analysis
       of resources in relation to the capability of the land and in terms
       of soil resources and conditions.

   Informed and valid decisions are best made when based upon
   scientifically derived data. The NRI has been developed to supply this
   type of information. The NRI database is powerful, credible, and
   scientifically constructed. The present NRI is the result of many
   decades of development.

   1997 National Resources Inventory Summary Report
   PDF symbol Complete report in PDF format
   Secretary's announcement of the 1997 National Resources Inventory
   (Revised December 2000).
   Highlights of the 1997 National Resources Inventory
   The Resources Inventory Division leads the NRI effort in cooperation
   with Iowa State University.

   last updated 12/28/01

   USDA homepage | NRCS homepage | RID homepage


    Send comments and questions about this site to nri@nhq.nrcs.usda.gov.

   NRI Help Desk and webmaster
