http://mosaic.larc.nasa.gov/larc_images/images.htm

                                     Jet


                      skip left nav NASA Logo
                                    Images page
                                    LISAR
                                    NIX
                                    LAVA
                                    LITE
                                    Media Concepts Team
                                    Home
                      Freedom of Information Act



   skip top nav About Us Research News and Events Education Images
   Business with LaRC Reports and Publications Site Index

   Images

   Capturing Our Pictorial History

      NASA Langley Research Center has an historic and diverse repository of
      photographs and digital images covering more than 80 years of research
      at Langley.

   Langley Photographs and Images

      The Langley Image Scanning, Archival, and Retrieval (LISAR) system
      provides a database of photos documenting NASA and NACA research at
      Langley Research Center. Photos include aircraft structures, aircraft
      design, aircraft models, wind tunnel tests, materials research, space
      programs projects and historic events.
      The NASA Image eXchange (NIX) provides a single interface to search all
      available NASA image libraries. NIX has access to over 300,000 images
      and animations via keyword and indexed searches. It is a product of the
      NASA Scientific and Technical Information (STI) Program.
      The NASA Langley Media Concepts Team (MCT) maintains a library of NASA
      digital images. Included in this library are NASA logos and imagery,
      buttons, and animations.
      The NASA Langley Animation and Video Archive (LAVA) provides a
      web-based database of computer-generated animations and digitized
      videos.

   Project Photographs and Images

      The Lidar In-space Technology Experiment (LITE) is a three-wavelength
      backscatter lidar developed by Langley Research Center to fly on the
      Space Shuttle. The performance of the LITE instrument was excellent,
      resulting in the collection of over 40 GBytes of data. Several images
      are stored in the LITE Data Gallery.
   manditory area for keeping the table dimensions
   Research Section Aeronautics Earth Science Space Technology Structures
                                                               and Materials

   Privacy Statement | Feedback | Freedom of Information Act | 2003
   Centennial of Flight | Researcher News online | Language Assistance
   Plan (LAP)
   NASA Responsible Official: Cheryl Cleghorn | Page Curator: Bob Allen |
   Date Last Updated: 01/29/2002
