http://infrared.als.lbl.gov/IRNews/IRNews5.pdf

   ALS IR News No.5 October 22, 1999 Far-IR at the ALS Workshop Summary
   Michael C. Martin, Wayne R. McKinney On October 20, 1999 we convened a
   workshop measured results from an edge source to discuss the
   possibilities of a Far-IR source confirming the calculations done by
   Bosch. at the ALS, review the science that would These measurements,
   however, do not yet benefit from such a source, and identify top extend
   into the Far-IR spectral region. He also scientists with the skills and
   interest to lead a presented plans for a new IR beamline at drive to
   completion. BESSY II. Just over thirty attended the workshop. Please To
   present one possibility for Far-IR at the refer to the attendee's list
   and the program ALS Wayne then presented calculations done schedule
   appended at the end of the memo. with Bob Bosch's assistance which
   compared the 3 to 1000 micron flux and brightness of the current BL 1.4
   front end, and a potential Far- * Morning Session: IR port at the 1.0
   injection straight port using edge radiation from the first sector one
   Mike started off the program by briefly giving bending magnet. This has
   several advantages. the reason for the workshop, and describing No
   other program wants the injection straight. the current BL 1.4 complex
   for microscopy, There is plenty of room inside the tunnel at timing,
   and surface science. that point, and there should not be a significant
   Next Bob Bosch, an accelerator physicist from heating problem from
   X-rays at the 1.0 port. SRC at the University of WI, described results
   Wayne's calculations confirmed the from most of the IR facilities in
   the world approximate order of magnitude increase in calculated with
   the Synchrotron Radiation Far-IR flux over the 10 by 40 mr BL 1.4 port.
   Workshop code written by Chubar of the It should be noted that the
   vertical opening of ESRF. Bob has confirmed the accuracy of this 1 inch
   at the 1.0 port starts to cut off the top code by his own calculations
   and and bottom of even the edge radiation beyond measurements at SRC.
   He presented results a wavelength of 100 microns (100 cm-1). comparing
   the sources in flux and brightness John Byrd presented his ideas about
   the at each facility for bending magnet IR and for construction of a
   coherent Far-IR source that edge radiation IR. Generally, for all would
   be placed in the current booster tunnel. wavelengths the brightness of
   the two types of Prospective beamlines could use the space on source is
   similar, providing no significant the roof of the shielding. Since this
   shielding is advantage of edge over bending magnet and a single pour
   the vibration problems seen on vice-versa for brightness limited
   applications the removable shielding blocks of the ALS such as
   microscopy. For the Far IR region storage ring would not be as
   significant. This there can be approximately a factor of 10 in is an
   attractive idea that stimulated much flux gained by the use of edge
   radiation. This discussion. Not only would it be an excellent is due to
   the fact that the edge radiation comes Far-IR source, but the extremely
   short pulse out in a cone of angle proportional to 1/ . lengths
   required for the coherent emission Ulrich Schade of BESSY II presented
   would enable new science based on the new ALS IR News Page 2 No.5 fast
   timing capabilities. It would use a much measurements from the c-axis
   of several high- smaller beam current that would reduce the Tc
   superconductors. The c-axis is always the complexity and costs. The
   drop in flux due to smallest dimension in these planar materials so
   using a low beam current would be more than these experiments are
   brightness-limited. The offset in the Far-IR by the coherent "n
   analysis of his data showed that a spectral squared" emission. The much
   shorter electron weight sum rule couldn't completely account bunches
   are attainable with modifications to for the superfluid density. His
   experiments the typical storage ring parameters, also would benefit
   significantly from greater particularly increasing the RF voltage by
   using Far-IR brightness. a superconducting RF cavity. After a coffee
   break, Larry Carr of the NSLS presented a talk on the current status of
   the * Afternoon Session: U12IR beamline and some of the Far-IR
   Following lunch, Mike and Wayne gave the science they have been doing
   with it. After group a tour of the current Beamline 1.4 IR reviewing
   some classic high-Tc complex. NSLS staff were particularly
   superconductor measurements done at interested in the active feedback
   system for Brookhaven, Larry reported on work that has taking out
   microphonic motion of the light been done using a synchronized pulsed
   laser beam, and several attendees expressed interest system to look at
   fast dynamics in in using the Mid-IR microscopy capability of
   semiconductors and superconductors. It was BL 1.4.3. pointed out that
   this type of pump-probe spectroscopy could be done with higher time
   Zack Schlesinger then chaired the afternoon resolution at the ALS where
   the electron session, which had descriptions of three less bunches are
   ten times shorter than they are at conventional uses of the Far-IR
   range: the NSLS. Joe Orenstein of UC Berkeley and LBNL At this point
   Joe Orenstein took over as MSD presented some of the results he has
   session chair as the workshop turned toward obtained using his
   terahertz spectroscopy scientific applications of Far-IR. He system, an
   alternative method for measuring in challenged the next speakers to
   indicate what, the very Far-IR wavelength range. With it he if any,
   benefit to their respective scientific has been investigating the
   pseudo-gap region programs would accrue from the construction of the
   high-Tc superconductors' phase of a dedicated Far-IR beamline at the
   ALS. diagram. His present technique measures only up to approximately
   30 cm1, and would Zack Schlesinger from UC Santa Cruz benefit from
   overlapping Far-IR measurements presented a very nice overview of
   Far-IR on the same samples at the ALS. spectroscopy applied to the
   problems in strongly correlated electron systems, with an Laszlo
   Mihaly, a solid state physicist from emphasis on some d-level electron
   materials. SUNY Stony Brook, followed by describing Even though his
   apparatus is state-of-the-art his new experimental setup which is being
   lab-based Far-IR, his measurements are setup at one of Brookhaven's
   Far-IR extremely time consuming because of the beamlines. He is using a
   very high resolution inherent lack of signal in laboratory-based FTIR
   bench, combined with a high-field sources. He is very enthusiastic
   about the superconducting magnet to enable potential increase in signal
   from a Far-IR measurements of Electron Spin Resonance beamline, which
   would allow him to do a lot (ESR) at higher frequencies than ever
   before. more measurements. Indeed the new system will use the FTIR
   measurement process to obtain ESR results at Dimitri Basov from UC San
   Diego continued a wide range of frequencies simultaneously. this theme
   by presenting Far-IR reflectivity This will be an entirely new and very
   fast ALS IR News Page 3 No.5 method of probing strongly interacting
   Some considered the most straightforward electron spins in a variety of
   systems. method to get more Far-IR is to open up a port Frank Keutsch,
   a graduate student standing in in the ring allowing collection of the
   longer for Richard Saykally of the UC Berkeley wavelengths that have a
   much larger opening. Chemistry Department presented the final talk The
   group encouraged us to investigate the of the day. He described their
   labor-intensive costs involved with changing the chamber in efforts to
   measure the absorption of gaseous both the bending magnet and edge
   radiation water clusters in the Far-IR at incredibly high- cases.
   resolution. Their IR source is very tricky to maintain, but seems to be
   the only current method of producing such high-resolution *
   Conclusions: measurements. A Far-IR source at the ALS could potentially
   provide considerably more The overall conclusions and recommendations
   flux for their experiments, but it is not clear if of the workshop are:
   it is possible to make an FT or dispersive * A dedicated Far-IR
   beamline should be instrument that has as much spectral resolution
   built at the ALS. as their laser plus microwave non-linear beating
   technique. * Dimitri Basov and Zack Schlesinger emerged as the most
   enthusiastic potential users of Far-IR at the ALS, * Discussion: eager
   to help find the support for such a facility and help guide in the
   selection At the end of the presentations, Mike thanked of scientific
   apparatus for end-stations. everyone for participating and opened the
   Joe Orenstein is also interested and workshop to a round-table type
   discussion. willing to help. The entire group stayed until nearly 5pm
   going * The ALS staff should determine the cost over several issues of
   the day. We were very to modify a sector chamber to allow a pleased
   that the overall tone of all those in larger vertical collection angle
   for attendance was enthusiastic for the standard beamline ports as well
   as for construction of some kind of Far-IR facility at the existing "IR
   ports" where being the ALS. The potential science that could be closer
   to the bending magnet is enhanced by such a facility was deemed very
   advantageous. Continue calculations worthwhile and the value of having
   a West and estimates for using the injection Coast Far-IR synchrotron
   facility was straight for edge-radiation. This would highlighted.
   identify the most cost-effective means Some concern was expressed that
   the edge of getting Far-IR out of the ALS ring. radiation has not been
   observed sufficiently in For the future, get a first pass at a cost the
   Far-IR. In the case of NSLS, the lack of estimate for Byrd's coherent
   Far-IR ring Far-IR observed to date is explained by Bosch proposal. as
   the natural cutoff of the radiation as the cone becomes bigger than the
   aperture in the * Once the technical details for extracting ring. In
   addition the possible interaction of the Far-IR from the ALS ring are
   pinned vacuum chamber with the longer wavelength down, a full proposal
   should be written radiation must be considered. More careful to fund
   and build a new Far-IR facility. experiments are needed to fully
   evaluate the potential of edge radiation as a Far-IR source. ALS IR
   News Page 4 No.5 List of Attendees: Joe Orenstein University of CA,
   Berkeley Eugene Haller University of CA, Berkeley Zack Schlesinger
   University of CA, Santa Cruz Paul Richards University of CA, Berkeley
   Dimitri Basov University of CA, San Diego Gwyn Williams NSLS,
   Brookhaven National Lab Larry Carr NSLS, Brookhaven National Lab Bob
   Bosch SRC, University of Wisconsin Ulrich Schade BESSY II Angela
   Hight-Walker National Institute of Standards and Technology Laszlo
   Mihaly State Univ. of NY at Stony Brook John Byrd LBNL Accelerator
   Physics Dave Robin LBNL Accelerator Physics Jeff Hesler University of
   Virginia Chris Weber University of CA, Berkeley Emil Hallin Canadian
   Light Source James Chesko ALZA Corporation Steve Irick LBNL Frank
   Keutsch University of CA, Berkeley Kevin Wilson University of CA,
   Berkeley Satish Myneni Princeton University and LBNL Phil Huie Stanford
   University, Dept. of Pathology Todd Smith Stanford University Hansen
   Laboratory IR FEL Hoi-Ying Holman LBNL LSD Phil Ross LBNL MSD Birgit
   Schwickert University of CA, Berkeley Donna Hamamoto LBNL ALS Cheryl
   Hauck LBNL ALS Joel Ager LBNL MSD Sherry Zhang LBNL EEAET Organizers:
   Michael C. Martin LBNL ALS Wayne R. McKinney LBNL ALS ALS IR News Page
   5 No.5 Far-IR Workshop Program 1999 ALS Users' Meeting October 20, 1999
   Wednesday October 20 8:30 Continental Breakfast 9:00 Michael Martin ALS
   Welcome Far-IR Synchrotron Beamline Sources Chair: M. Martin 9:10 Bob
   Bosch SRC, Wisconsin "Edge radiation as a source for an IR beamline"
   9:40 Ulrich Schade ISAS, Berlin "IRIS: An IR-beamline at BESSY II"
   Wayne 9:55 McKinney "Specific Source Considerations for Far-IR at the
   ALS" ALS 10:10 John Byrd "A Coherent Far-IR Synchrotron Source in the
   ALS Booster ALS Tunnel" 10:40 Coffee Break 11:00 Larry Carr "The NSLS
   U12IR far infrared beamline, scientific programs and NSLS, BNL results"
   Far-IR Science Chair: J. Orenstein 11:30 Zack Schlesinger UC Santa Cruz
   "Infrared studies of strongly correlated electron systems" 12:00
   Dimitri Basov "An Infrared Probe of the Energetics of Superconducting
   State in UC San Diego High-T Cuprates" c 12:30 Lunch (provided for
   registrants) 1:30 Tour of ALS IR Beamlines Far-IR Science (continued)
   Chair: Z. Schlesinger 2:00 Joseph Orenstein UC Berkeley "Terahertz
   spectroscopy of copper-oxide superconductors" Laszlo Mihaly 2:30 SUNY
   Stony "Electron Spin Resonance on Strongly Interacting Spins: a Novel
   Brook Far-IR Application" 3:00 Richard Saykally UC Berkeley " Far-IR
   Laser spectroscopy of Water Clusters" 3:30 Coffee Break and Discussion
