http://cantor.house.gov/newsroom/columns/20011109veterans.htm

                         [banner.gif] [clearspc.gif]
                         [clearspc.gif]
                         [clearspc.gif]


   [clearspc.gif]

   [ericcantor-white.gif]
   [contactme-white.gif]
   [constituentservices-white.gif]
   [7thdistrict-white.gif]
   [emailupdates-white.gif]
   [newsroom-white.gif]
   [legislativerecord-white.gif]
   [kidspage-white.gif]
   [privacy-white.gif]
   [home-white.GIF]


   [clearspc.gif]
   [clearspc.gif] News Room
   (The following is a column by Congressman Eric Cantor for use on
   opinion and editorial pages.  Contact: Jenn Mascott, 202-225-2815)
   [clearspc.gif]

   Veterans -- Our Nation's Greatest Heroes

   Weekly Column from U.S. Congressman Eric Cantor (R-Virginia)
   WASHINGTON, Nov. 9— This year, Veterans Day carried particular
   significance as America continues its war against the terrorists.
   We reflected on the brave soldiers who have died for our
   freedom and the members of our armed forces who are serving
   our country today to secure our liberties and our continued
   prosperity.
   We can continue to honor our veterans of the past, knowing
   that these men and women fought to preserve our country so
   that today, Americans continue to live in freedom.
   Currently, our armed forces are overseas in Afghanistan working
   to find Osama bin Laden and to destroy any weapons, bases, or
   infrastructure that support international terrorists.
   American forces have traveled across the world and away from
   their families to conduct our bombing campaign. We even have
   American special forces operating on the ground in the barren,
   desolate land of Afghanistan.
   Last Thursday, we received reassurance President Bush in his
   national public address. President Bush confirmed that our
   military operations are meeting with success in Afghanistan, and
   the war against the terrorists is going well.
   This war could very well be the longest war America has ever
   faced. Our President is dedicated to rooting out the terrorists
   and will persevere until our victory is complete.
   As Thomas Paine wrote, "these are the times that try men's
   souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this
   crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he that
   stands it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman."
   Throughout our country's history, close to 1.3 million veterans
   have laid down their lives in the service of our country.
   Firefighters and rescue personnel lost their lives as they
   responded to the call to help the victims of the September 11
   terrorist attacks, and more men and women may lose their lives
   for our country in our military operations during the war against
   the terrorists.
   When these heroes return home to America after their military
   service, they and the veterans who lived through previous wars
   need to receive their due honor.
   Congress is dedicated to providing quality healthcare and
   benefits to veterans who put in their time and service and now
   rely on us after they have retired.
   We have not forgotten our country's defenders. Last week, I
   voted with the near-unanimous majority of Congress to pass the
   Veterans Affairs-Housing and Urban Development Appropriations
   Act that increased resources for veterans benefits, for medical
   research, and for military cemeteries.
   With my support, Congress also passed legislation that
   authorizes $550 million to repair dilapidated and obsolete medical
   facilities with the Veterans Hospital Emergency Repair Act. This
   funding keeps our promise to American veterans and addresses
   patient safety, privacy and accommodation for disabled
   veterans.
   The 21st Century Montgomery GI Bill Enhancement Act passed
   by the House serves to increase the education benefit in order
   to guarantee that those Americans who are prepared to offer
   their lives for their country are given the opportunity to thrive
   once back in civilian society.
   I believe those needs not only apply to our veterans, but the
   families that they left behind. The Veterans' Survivor Benefits
   Improvements Act has created new life insurance and health
   care benefits for up to two million eligible spouses and children of
   veterans.
   President Bush signed into law legislation, for which I voted, that
   will expedite the construction of the World War II Memorial. This
   has finally put an end to the numerous delays in establishing this
   long overdue tribute on the Mall in Washington, D.C. The World
   War II national memorial is evidence of our national commitment
   to the struggle and sacrifice of the Americans who have
   diligently served so that freedom and democracy can prevail. Our
   veterans will continue to receive the honor and care that they
   deserve.
   As we continue on throughout this year, we should reflect on the
   many Americans – some who were injured or died in combat –
   who wore the uniform and made our country safe and strong.
   Their service must never be forgotten. Their legacy will endure
   forever.
   [clearspc.gif]
   [clearspc.gif]

                               Washington, DC
                             329 Cannon Building
                            Washington, DC 20515
                           Phone:  (202) 225-2815
                            Fax:  (202) 225-0011

                                Richmond, VA
                           5040 Sadler Place, #110
                            Glen Allen, VA 23060
                           Phone:  (804) 747-4073
                            Fax:  (804) 747-5308

                                Culpeper, VA
                             763 Madison Rd #207
                             Culpeper, VA 22701
                           Phone:  (540) 825-8960
                            Fax:  (540) 825-8964
   [clearspc.gif]
