http://homeenergysaver.lbl.gov/hes/about_dat.html

   About The Home Energy Saver

      The Home Energy Saver is designed to help consumers identify the best
      ways to save energy in their homes, and find the resources to make the
      savings happen. The Home Energy Saver was the first Internet-based tool
      for calculating energy use in residential buildings. The project is
      sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and the U.S.
      Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), as part of the national ENERGY
      STAR Program for improving energy efficiency in homes.

      The Home Energy Saver quickly computes a home's energy use on-line
      based on methods developed at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. By
      changing one or more features of the modeled home, users can estimate
      how much energy and money can be saved and how much pollution prevented
      by implementing energy-efficiency improvements. All end uses (heating,
      cooling, major appliances, lighting, and miscellaneous uses) are
      included.

      The Home Energy Saver's Energy Advisor calculates energy use and
      savings opportunities, based on a detailed description of the home
      provided by the user. Users can begin the process by simply entering
      their zip code, and in turn receive instant initial estimates. By
      providing more information about the home the user will receive
      increasingly customized results along with energy-saving upgrade
      recommendations.

      The Energy Advisor calculates heating and cooling consumption using the
      DOE-2 building simulation program (version 2.1E), developed by the U.S.
      Department of Energy. The program performs a full annual simulation for
      a typical weather year (involving 8760 hourly calculations) in about
      10-20 seconds, after the user assembles the necessary information
      describing their home. Users can choose from 239 weather locations
      around the United States. DOE-2 performs a very sophisticated series of
      calculations, but the web-based user interface is relatively simple and
      results are distilled into a useful form. Default energy prices for
      each fuel and state are also available, or users can enter a specific
      price of their choosing.

      The Energy Advisor calculates domestic water heating energy consumption
      using a detailed model developed by LBNL researchers. Users can see how
      household size, age of occupants, equipment efficiencies, and water
      inlet temperatures affect bottom-line energy costs.

      By simply entering the number and approximate age of their major
      appliances, users can estimate their energy consumption, based on
      historic sales-weighted efficiency data. A very detailed module is also
      included to estimate energy consumption and savings opportunities for
      lighting and dozens of miscellaneous gas and electric appliances, with
      default values based on data compiled over the years by LBNL
      researchers.

      In addition to calculating energy use on-line, the Home Energy Saver's
      Making it Happen and Energy Librarian modules connect users to an
      expanding array of "how-to" information resources throughout the
      Internet. These modules help users successfully capitalize on the
      energy savings opportunities identified by the Energy Advisor module.
      Users benefit from a dynamic information base unparalleled by resources
      that could be published on static electronic media. These modules offer
      a host of links to practical information, ranging from lists of
      specific efficient products ... to tips about selecting a good
      contractor ... to information on what assistance your utility might
      have to offer. The site also features an extensive glossary and
      frequently-asked questions module.

      Through special arrangement with Home Energy Magazine, the Home Energy
      Saver features extensive passages from the book No-Regrets Remodeling
      as part of the Making It Happen module.

      The Ask An Energy Expert Service is provided courtesy of USDOE's Energy
      Efficiency and Renewable Energy Network.

   How to Use the Home Energy Saver

   Technical Description

        * Appliances
        * Heating and Cooling
        * Lighting
        * Water Heating
        * Background Data
             + Default descriptions for "typical" and "efficient" homes

   User Testimonials and Media Accolades

   The Development Team

   Mission Statement
