http://www.fedcir.gov/chdepsec.html

           United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

                              POSITION VACANCY

                           ANNOUNCEMENT NO.  01-15

   OPEN:
          April 16, 2001

   CLOSE:
          Until filled

   AVAILABLITY:
          May 7, 2001

   POSITION, TITLE, GRADE AND SALARY:
          Secretary to the Chief Deputies for Administration and
          Operations; CL 24/1 - CL 25/61 $26,547- 47,648, depending upon
          experience and qualifications

   DUTIES:
          The Secretary to the Chief Deputy for Administration and to the
          Chief Deputy for Operations performs duties and responsibilities
          such as the following:  (1) Receives, screens, and refers
          telephone calls and personal visitors;  (2) Answers routine
          inquiries and provides assistance to the public as authorized,
          maintaining the confidentiality of sensitive matters if
          required; (3) Assists in the preparation of correspondence and
          other materials, from rough copy, or own notes, for either of
          the Chief Deputies to sign and routes to the appropriate party;
          (4) Assists in the distribution of the incoming mail to the
          various deputies ensuring that the item is affixed with the
          correct date stamp;  (5) Monitors pending matters from both of
          the Chief Deputies and assists with prioritization; (6) As
          needed, provides back-up support to other staff members of the
          clerk’s office; (7) Establishes and maintains files pertaining
          to the business conducted by both Chief Deputies; (8)  Maintains
          the supply, work, leave, and training schedules of the clerk’s
          office; (9) Updates and monitors the tickler system for action
          items delegated by the Chief Deputy; (10) Serves as the Imprest
          Fund Cashier for the court; and (11) Performs other duties as
          assigned in accomplishing the mission of the Clerk as directed
          by the Chief Deputy for Administration and the Chief Deputy for
          Operations.

   EXPERIENCE:
          Responsible clerical or administrative experience which provides
          a knowledge of office clerical practices such as filing,
          telephone usage, word processing, data entry, record keeping,
          sorting, and distributing mail.  Sales, stockroom, office
          machine operation and similar types of experience are not
          creditable, unless the experience involved, is a regular and
          routine part of the job.

   SPECIALIZED EXPERIENCE:
          At least two (2) years experience in progressively responsible
          secretarial position that provided exposure to law related
          matters (such as might be found in a law, insurance, or real
          estate office).

   SUBMIT FORM SF171 (PREFERRED), OF612, OPTIONAL APPLICATION FOR FEDERAL
   EMPLOYMENT, OR RESUME (plus a listing of job references and salary
   history) to:


    Pamela J. Twiford, Chief Deputy Clerk for Operations
    U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
    717 Madison Place, N.W., Room 401
    Washington, D.C.  20439

   This position will be filled in accordance with the provisions of this
   court’s affirmative action plan.  Applicants must be United States
   citizens or eligible to work in the United States.  This position is
   subject to mandatory Electronic Fund Transfer Program (EFT)
   participation for payment of net pay.
