http://www.usdoj.gov/consumerfraud.htm

   c USDOJ Seal U.S. Department of Justice
       HOMEPAGE    |     CONTACT US    |     PRIVACY NOTICE    |     SITE
   MAP    |     SEARCH

   Consumer Fraud
   gold bar with blue star

   Possible Fraud Schemes: Solicitations of Donations for Victims of
   Terrorist Attacks

   In the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade
   Center and the Pentagon, consumer groups and members of the public have
   reported receiving unsolicited e-mail messages, which urge people to
   donate money to the Red Cross or to funds for victims of the attacks
   and their families. Some of these e-mails are being sent by people with
   a sincere desire to help, and contain accurate information. Others,
   however, have tried to persuade people to leave valuable personal or
   financial data, such as credit-card numbers, at Internet Websites that
   do not belong to legitimate charitable organizations. In addition, some
   reports indicate that telemarketers operating fraudulent "sweepstakes"
   or magazine-subscription schemes may be falsely promising consumers
   that a portion of their money will be provided to the disaster recovery
   efforts. Full Report

   Internet Fraud

   In general, the same types of fraud schemes that have victimized
   consumers and investors for many years before the proliferation of
   Internet use are now appearing online. You may find fraud schemes in
   chat rooms, e-mail, message boards, or on Web sites. Find more
   information at our internet fraud site, where you can also find tips on
   dealing with internet fraud.

   You can report Internet Fraud at the Internet Fraud Complaint Center.

   To find out about other types of computer crime and cybercrime legal
   and policy issues, see the Cybercrime web site.

   Identity Theft and Fraud

   Identity theft and identity fraud are crimes in which someone obtains
   and uses another person's personal information in some way that
   involves fraud or deception, typically for economic gain. Visit our Web
   pages to find precautions you can take to protect yourself from
   identity theft.

   Telemarketing Fraud

   Fraudulent telemarketers typically use false and misleading statements,
   representations, and promises when offering you goods and services,
   investments, or asking you to donate funds to charitable causes. To
   learn more about how you can avoid becoming a victim of telephone
   marketing fraud, visit our telemarketing fraud site, English or
   Spanish.
   Additional telemarketing fraud prevention tips.

   Mortgage Scams

   Are you having trouble making your home mortgage payments? Are you
   facing foreclosure on your home? Get all the facts before you pay
   someone to help you work out your mortgage problems. Check out our
   consumer alert on mortgage foreclosure scams.

   Gather all the information you need and do comparative shopping when
   you need a mortgage. Looking for the Best Mortgage? A Consumer
   Information Brochure will guide you on what you need to know when
   obtaining a mortgage.

   Fraud Victims Publications and Consumer Web Sites

   Consumer information links that help consumers locate information that
   may be useful to them and provide guidance in how to file complaints
   when appropriate.

   A collection of publications on the Justice Information Center's fraud
   victims page.

   For more information about the Department components that are most
   active in this area, consult the Criminal Division Fraud Section, Civil
   Division Office of Consumer Litigation and Federal Bureau of
   Investigation web sites.


     Last Updated: 09/19/01


                                               Information for Individuals
                                                     and Communities


                           * Consumer Fraud
                           * Disabilities
                           * Discrimination
                           * Dispute Resolution
                           * Domestic Violence
                           * Elder Justice
                           * Immigration Information
                           * Prison & Parole Information
                           * Safe Communities
                           * Youth Violence
                           * Victims of Crime
