http://spectrum.lbl.gov/www/personnel/smoot.html

   [smoot-highres.gif]

                             Professor George Smoot

   works in experimental astrophysics and observational cosmology. Smoot
   has been at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (formerly Lawrence
   Berkeley Laboratory) since 1970 and is most famous for his research on
   the cosmic background radiation. This radiation is thought to be the
   relic of the intense heat of the early Big Bang.

   In April 1992, George Smoot made the announcement that the long sought
   variations in the early Universe had been observed by the COBE DMR team
   he led. NASA's COBE (Cosmic Background Explorer) satellite mapped the
   intensity of the radiation from the early Big Bang and found variations
   so small they had be the seeds on which gravity worked to grow the
   galaxies, clusters of galaxies, and clusters of clusters that are
   observed in the Universe today.

   Professor Smoot has also written a popular book about cosmology, some
   of his experiments and experiences, and the COBE discovery named
   "Wrinkles in Time" avaialbe at your book store or Amazon Books

   Professor Smoot is associated with several different institutions:
     * LBL (Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory)
     * Physics Department of the University of California, Berkeley
     * CfPA (Center for Particle Astrophysics, an NSF Center for Science &
       Technology)
     * INPA (Institute for Nuclear and Particle Astrophysics at LBL)
     * SSL (Space Sciences Laboratory of the University of California)

   Dr. Smoot's publications can be found at:
     * Astrophysical Data System (ADS) Abstract listing eventually lists
       most publications, usually runs some months behind,
     * preprint server listing for recently posted papers, and
     * full length resume contains a listing of approximately 200 articles
       and other relevant information.

   A copy of Dr. Smoot's biography which is published in CURRENT BIOGRAPHY
   (Vol 55, No. 4 April 1994) provides a brief summary.

   1994 OMNI Magazine Interview

   Some information and material from Professor Smoot's classes are found
   in the Smoot's Courses' Home Page

   More color photos and More black and white photos available. Fun
   Photographs and Caricatures

   The smoot as a unit of length and the Haravard Bridge

   Return to the Smoot Group page for a complete description of Dr.
   Smoot's group's research activities.

   You may reach Prof. George Smoot's group by the following routes:
   telephone: 510-486-5237
   fax: 510-486-7149
   e-mail: SMOOT@cosmos.lbl.gov
   mail: Astrophysics Group, MS 50-205, LBNL, 1 Cyclotron Road, Berkeley
   CA 94720
