http://www.fbnms.nos.noaa.gov/HTML/Management.html

                   Fagatele Bay National Marine Sanctuary

                             Resource Management

   Divers installing mooring buoy Fagatele Bay contains a pristine coral
   reef area that is an outstanding example of a Indo-Pacific coral reef
   ecosystem. Containing hundreds of species of fish, corals and other
   reef denizens, Fagatele Bay also bears the scars of some recent and
   severe natural disasters.

   Fagatele Bay National Marine Sanctuary is completely contained in the
   0.25 square miles of the bay. The land surrounding the bay resides in
   the hands of the families who have lived near the bays slopes for
   thousands of years. Fortunately, there is little development in the
   watershed and the one reliable stream that empties near the beach runs
   clear and clean.

   Management Challenges
   Coral Reefs
   Endangered Species
   Regulations
   Back to Fagetele BaySanctuary Go to National Marine Sanctuaries

   Last update: 31 May 1996


    html author: Paula Stone pstone@is1.wwb.noaa.gov
     __________________________________________________________________

                             Management Challenges

   The Sanctuary program continues to develop its relationship with the
   landowners with the trust that they will extend their protection to the
   coral reef that traditionally belonged as part of their titled lands.
   In addition to partnerships with the landowners, the Sanctuary Program
   uses other management tools to protect the resources. Education,
   research, regulation and enforcement contribute to the "toolbox"that
   the Sanctuary management utilizes. Each of these tools must be used
   appropriately. Although we focus much of our education efforts on
   children, we plan to expand those efforts to adult groups.

   Public awareness, too, plays a major role in management; the Sanctuary
   publishes posters, brochures and bumper stickers, distributes t-shirts
   and other types of "advertising". The media is a useful too: we publish
   a column, and use TV and radio for announcements and news interviews.
   Enforcement works best with a sympathetic and cooperative public.
   Ideally, if the resource users support the program goals, there will be
   little need for a strong enforcement presence.

   As managers of the natural resources at Fagatele Bay, there is little
   we can do in the face of natural disasters. However, our role becomes
   vital when we consider the human caused impacts. Fagatele Bay is
   protected by regulation from destructive types of fishing such as
   dynamite fishing and the traditional poison fishing (futu or 'ava
   niukini). In addition, spearfishing and fixed nets are also prohibited
   and all invertebrates, including the crown-of-thorns starfish, are
   protected. Local conservation officers and the National Marine
   Fisheries Service are responsible for enforcing the regulations at
   Sanctuary. Enforcement is also encouraged through the local landowners
   who oversee visitors that pass over their land to the site.

   As we approach a new century, Fagatele Bay National Marine Sanctuary
   Program will continue to blend marine education, research and
   enforcement into an effective management package that preserves the
   natural and cultural resources of this special area. At the same time
   we serve the Samoan community, visitors and the American people.

                                  Regulations

   15 CFR Part 222, Subpart J--Fagatele Bay National Marine Sanctuary

   Sec. 922.100 Scope of regulations.

   The provisions of this subpart J apply only to the area of the
   Territory of American Samoa within the boundary of the Fagatele Bay
   National Marine Sanctuary (Sanctuary). Neither the provisions of this
   subpart J nor any permit issued under their authority shall be
   construed to relieve a person from any other requirements imposed by
   statute or regulation of the Territory of American Samoa or of the
   United States. In addition, no statute or regulation of the Territory
   of American Samoa shall be construed to relieve a person from the
   restrictions, conditions, and requirements contained in this subpart J.

   Sec. 922.101 Boundary.

   The Sanctuary is a 163-acre (0.25 sq. mi.) coastal embayment formed by
   a collapsed volcanic crater on the island of Tutuila, Territory of
   American Samoa and includes Fagatele Bay in its entirety. The landward
   boundary is defined by the mean high high water (MHHW) line between
   Fagatele Point (14 deg.22'15'' S, 170 deg.46'5'' W) and Steps Point (14
   deg.22'44'' S, 170 deg.45'27'' W). The seaward boundary of the
   Sanctuary is defined by a straight line between Fagatele Point and
   Steps Point.

   Sec. 922.102 Prohibited or otherwise regulated activities.

   (a) Except as may be necessary for national defense or to respond to an
   emergency threatening life, property, or the environment, or as may be
   permitted by the Director in accordance with Sec. 922.48 and Sec.
   922.104, the following activities are prohibited and thus are unlawful
   for any person to conduct or to cause to be conducted within the
   Sanctuary:

   (1)(i)(A) Gathering, taking, breaking, cutting, damaging, destroying,
   or possessing any invertebrate, coral, bottom formation, or marine
   plant.
   (B) Taking, gathering, cutting, damaging, destroying, or possessing any
   crown-of-thorns starfish (Acanthaster planci).
   (C) Possessing or using poisons, electrical charges, explosives, or
   similar environmentally destructive methods.
   (D) Possessing or using spearguns, including such devices known as
   Hawaiian slings, pole spears, arbalettes, pneumatic and spring-loaded
   spearguns, bows and arrows, bang sticks, or any similar taking device.
   (E) Possessing or using a seine, trammel net, or any type of fixed
   net.
   (ii) There shall be a rebuttable presumption that any items listed in
   this paragraph (a)(1) found in the possession of a person within the
   Sanctuary have been used, collected, or removed within or from the
   Sanctuary have been used, collected, or removed within or from the
   Sanctuary.
   (2)(i) Operating a vessel closer than 200 feet (60.96 meters) from
   another vessel displaying a dive flag at a speed exceeding three knots.
   (ii) Operating a vessel in a manner which causes the vessel to strike
   or otherwise cause damage to the natural features of the Sanctuary.
   (3) Diving or conducting diving operations from a vessel not flying in
   a conspicuous manner the international code flag alpha ``A.''
   (4) Littering, depositing, or discharging, into the waters of the
   Sanctuary, any material or other matter.
   (5) Disturbing the benthic community by dredging, filling, dynamiting,
   bottom trawling, or otherwise altering the seabed.
   (6) Removing, damaging, or tampering with any historical or
   cultural resource within the boundary of the Sanctuary.
   (7) Ensnaring, entrapping, or fishing for any sea turtle listed as a
   threatened or endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of
   1973, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.
   (8) Except for law enforcement purposes, using or discharging
   explosives or weapons of any description. Distress signaling devices,
   necessary and proper for safe vessel operation, and knives generally
   used by fishermen and swimmers shall not be considered weapons for
   purposes of this section.
   (9) Marking, defacing, or damaging in any way, or displacing or
   removing or tampering with any signs, notices, or placards, whether
   temporary or permanent, or with any monuments, stakes, posts, or other
   boundary markers related to the Sanctuary.
   (b) In addition to those activities prohibited or otherwise regulated
   under paragraph (a) of this section, the following activities are
   prohibited and thus are unlawful for any person to conduct or to cause
   to be conducted landward of the straight line connecting Fagatele Point
   (14 deg.22'15'' S, 170 deg.46'5'' W) and Matautuloa Benchmark (14
   deg.22'18'' S, 170 deg.45'35'' W).
   (1) Possessing or using fishing poles, handlines, or trawls.
   (2) Fishing commercially.

   Sec. 922.103 Management and enforcement.

   The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has
   primary responsibility for the management of the Sanctuary pursuant to
   the Act. The American Samoa Economic and Development Planning Office
   (EDPO) will assist NOAA in the administration of the Sanctuary, and act
   as the lead agency, in conformance with the Designation Document, these
   regulations, and the terms and provisions of any grant or cooperative
   agreement. NOAA may act to deputize enforcement agents of the American
   Samoa Government (ASG) to enforce the regulations in this subpart in
   accordance with existing law. If NOAA chooses to exercise this
   provision, a memorandum of understanding shall be executed between NOAA
   and the ASG or the person(s) or entity authorized to act on their
   behalf.

   Sec. 922.104 Permit procedures and criteria.

   (a) Any person in possession of a valid permit issued by the Director,
   in consultation with the EDPO, in accordance with this section and Sec.
   922.48, may conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by Sec. 922.102 in
   the Sanctuary if such activity is judged not to cause long-term or
   irreparable harm to the resources of the Sanctuary, and is:
   (1) Related to research involving Sanctuary resources designed to
   enhance understanding of the Sanctuary environment or to improve
   resource management decisionmaking;
   (2) Intended to further the educational value of the Sanctuary and
   thereby enhance understanding of the Sanctuary environmental or improve
   resource management decisionmaking; or
   (3) For salvage or recovery operations.
   (b) Permit applications shall be addressed to the Director, Office of
   Ocean and Coastal Resource Management; ATTN: Sanctuary Coordinator,
   Fagatele Bay National Marine Sanctuary, P.O. Box 4318, Pago Pago, AS
   96799.
   (c) In considering whether to grant a permit, the Director shall
   evaluate such matters as:
   (1) The general professional and financial responsibility of the
   applicant;
   (2) The appropriateness of the methods being proposed for the
   purpose(s) of the activity;
   (3) The extent to which the conduct of any permitted activity may
   diminish or enhance the value of the Sanctuary as a source of
   recreation, education, or scientific information; and
   (4) The end value of the activity.
   (d) In addition to meeting the criteria in this section and Sec.
   922.48, the applicant also must demonstrate to the Director that: (1)
   The activity shall be conducted with adequate safeguards for the
   environment; and
   (2) The environment shall be returned to, or will regenerate to, the
   condition which existed before the activity occurred.
   (e) The Director may, at his or her discretion, grant a permit which
   has been applied for pursuant to this section, in whole or in part, and
   subject the permit to such condition(s) as he or she deems necessary. A
   permit granted for research related to the Sanctuary may include, but
   is not limited to, the following conditions:
   (1) The Director may observe any activity permitted by this section;
   (2) any information obtained in the research site shall be made
   available to the public; and
   (3) The submission of one or more reports of the status of such
   research activity may be required.

   Last update: 28 Oct 1997


    html author: Jeanie Stone
