http://response.restoration.noaa.gov/webmastr/privacy.html

   NOAA OR&R Home / About This Site / Your Privacy

                         About Your Privacy at Our Site

   This web site is provided as a public service by NOAA's Office of
   Response and Restoration (NOAA OR&R); we welcome you as a site visitor.
   Here is an explanation of how we handle information we learn about you
   during your visit.

   Most important, we do not collect information about you that would
   allow us to identify you by name or contact you directly (such as your
   name or email address), unless you choose to send that information to
   us. How we handle information about you depends on how you use our
   website:
    1. If you visit our site to read or download information, we collect
       and store just the following information about you:
          + Your host name or IP address.
          + The date and time when you visited pages on our site.
          + The pages you viewed.
       We use this information for site management purposes: for example,
       to learn how people visit the pages on our site, to find out which
       pages are of most interest to visitors, and to identify problems
       people may encounter at our site.
    2. If you identify yourself by sending us an email containing personal
       information (such as your postal address when you request us to
       send something to you),
          + We use your information to respond to your request.
          + We save your message in an email archive, which we use for
            site management purposes (for example, it's useful to us to
            see how many people have requested a particular item, or have
            asked a particular question).

   We do not use information about you in any other ways, and we do not
   share information about you with other parties. We do not use cookies
   (a cookie is a file placed on your hard drive by a web server, often
   without your knowledge).

   Unauthorized attempts to add or modify information on this web site are
   strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the Computer Fraud and
   Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information Infrastructure
   Protection Act.

   Direct questions about our privacy policy to webmaster@hazmat.noaa.gov.

   About This Site More information about our site.

   Revised: July 18, 2001
   Office of Response and Restoration, National Ocean Service, National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   orr.webmaster@noaa.gov
