http://www-aig.jpl.nasa.gov/public/planning/usnaufo1/

   [jpllogo.gif] Projects: USNAUFO1, Planning and Scheduling, Artificial
   Intelligence Group [Nasalogo.gif]

   nothing

   artificial intelligence group [_line.gif] planning and scheduling
   [_line.gif] machine learning systems [_line.gif] jpl [_line.gif]
   caltech [_line.gif] nasa

   [dot.gif] [earth.gif]
   nothing
   background description impact technology status significance problem
   sponsors moreinfo publications the team contacts

   Background top

                                    SAIL

   AI Technology top

   Information currently unavailable.

   Problem top

   Information currently unavailable.

   Impact top

   Information currently unavailable.

   Status top

   Information currently unavailable.

   Description top

   The Artificial Intelligence Group at JPL has been working on a system
   called ASPEN (A Scheduling and Planning Environment). Based on AI
   techniques, ASPEN is a modular, reconfigurable application framework
   which is capable of supporting a wide variety of planning and
   scheduling applications. ASPEN provides a set of reusable software
   components that implement the elements commonly found in complex
   planning/scheduling systems, including: an expressivemodeling language,
   a resource management system, a temporal reasoning system, a set of
   search algorithms for generating and repairing schedules, and a
   graphical interface.

   The primary application area for ASPEN is the spacecraft operations
   domain. Planning and scheduling spacecraft operations involves
   generating a sequence of low-level spacecraft commands from a set of
   high-level science and engineering goals. ASPEN will encode complex
   spacecraft operability constraints, flight rules, spacecraft hardware
   models, science experiment goals and operations procedures to allow for
   automated generation of low level spacecraft sequences by use of
   advanced Artificial Intelligence planning and scheduling technology.

   Hughes Space and Communications will build, launch, test and deliver
   on-orbit 10 UFO satellites under a contract with the US Navy. These
   spacecraft will provide secure global communications for U.S. Naval
   forces. The UFO series was the first to use the HS-601 spacecraft bus
   design. UFO-1 was launched into a useless orbit by a faulty Atlas on
   March 25, 1993. The Spacecraft Artificial Intelligence Laboratory at
   the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA) is using UFO-1 to conduct AI research.
   The ASPEN planning system will be used to schedule station keeping
   maneuvers and plan ground contacts when the spacecraft is within view
   of the USNA.

   Significance top

   Automated planning/scheduling technologies have great promise in
   reducing operations cost and increasing the autonomy of the UFO-1
   mission operations. By automating the command sequence generation
   process and by encapsulating the operation specific knowledge, ASPEN
   will enable UFO-1 spacecraft commanding by a small operations team
   without subsystem experts.

   More Information top

   Information currently unavailable.

   Publications top

   Please Note:
   This material is provided for your personal use only and may not be
   retransmitted or redistributed without permission in writing from the
   paper's publisher and/or author. You may not upload this material to
   any public server, on-line service, network, or bulletin board without
   prior written permission from the publisher and/or author. You may not
   make copies for any commercial purpose. This material is not public
   domain. Reproduction or storage of materials retrieved from this web
   site are subject to the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976, Title 17 U.S.C.

   Currently none available.

   Contacts top

   USNA UFO-1 Project Contact:
   Robert Sherwood, AI Group,
   rob.sherwood@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5378

   Gregg Rabideau, AI Group,
   gregg.rabideau@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5364

   JPL Technical Contact:
   Dr. Steve Chien, AI Group,
   steve.chien@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5320

   JPL Program Contact:
   Dr. Richard J.Doyle, Operations/Autonomy Program.

   The Project Team top

   Robert Sherwood
   Robert.Sherwood@jpl.nasa.gov

   Dr. Steve Chien
   Steve.Chien@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5320

   Sponsors top

   NASA Code S

   [jpllogo.gif] Questions: www@www-aig.jpl.nasa.gov
