http://www.oic.gov/SMALTZ/index.htm

                        [ISMAP:navbar.gif]-NAVBAR
                          * FINAL REPORT
                            Released October 25, 2001


                                           O.I.C. logo


                                  OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT COUNSEL

                                        Donald C. Smaltz

            IN RE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE ALPHONSO MICHAEL ESPY

   This is the web site of the Office of Independent Counsel in the
   investigation and prosecutions involving matters relating to former
   Secretary of Agriculture, Alphonso Michael Espy.

   Donald C. Smaltz was appointed Independent Counsel by the Special
   Division of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
   Columbia on September 9, 1994, to "investigate to the maximum extent
   authorized by [law]" whether Secretary Espy "committed a violation of
   any federal criminal law . . . relating in any way to the acceptance of
   gifts by him from organizations or individuals with business pending
   before the Department of Agriculture." He was also given jurisdiction
   to investigate "other allegations or evidence of violations of any
   federal criminal law by organizations or individuals developed during
   the course of the investigation of Secretary Espy and connected with or
   arising out of that investigation."

   The purpose of this web site is to give the public access to public
   information that defines and explains the investigation. This
   information includes (1) the Attorney General’s request for the
   Appointment of an Independent Counsel, (2) the Court’s order appointing
   the Independent Counsel, (3) the indictments, criminal informations,
   and civil complaints to date filed by this office which set forth the
   charges against the defendants in these cases, as well as related
   Settlement and Compliance Agreements, (4) the press releases issued by
   the Independent Counsel, (5) the Independent Counsel’s annual reports
   to Congress and congressional testimony, (6) the speeches delivered and
   articles written by the Independent Counsel, (7) a summary of all of
   our cases, including appellate matters and matters referred to other
   agencies that are public, (8) a list of the attorneys currently
   associated with this office, (9) selected Government briefs and court
   opinions, (10) a  financial page summarizing this office’s
   expenditures, and (11) the Final Report.

   The website represents our best efforts to make available public
   information that is otherwise accessible in various federal courthouses
   and agencies.

   We hope that you find this web site useful.

                              1990 K Street, NW
                                  Suite 400
                            Washington, DC  20006
                     (202)467-4100 (FAX) (202) 467-4158

                          [ISMAP:navbar.gif]-NAVBAR
