http://plan.cancer.gov/scipri/comms.htm

   Skip Navigation
   Plans and Priorities for Cancer Research [USEMAP:navmap.gif]

                                            _____________ Search

                              Directors message
                              Executive summary
                           Highlights of progress
                             2003 Budget Request
    Scientific Priorities for Cancer Research Extraordinary Opportunities
     * Introduction
     * Genes and the Environment
     * Cancer Imaging
     * Defining the Signatures of Cancer Cells: Detection, Diagnosis, and
       Therapy
     * Molecular Targets of Prevention and Treatment
     * Research on Tobacco and Tobacco-Related Cancers
     * Cancer Communications

          Infrastructure Needed for Cancer Research NCIs Challenge
                                  About NCI
           Planning National Agendas in Disease-Specific Research
     Additional Cancer Information for Patients and Health Professionals


Scientific Priorities for Cancer Research: NCI's Extraordinary Opportunities

   printer Print this page
   envelope Email this page
   dictionary Define terms on this page

Cancer Communications

   Goal
   The Opportunity
   The Changing Scene for Cancer Communications
   Progress in Pursuit of Our Goal
   Recent Research Findings Related to Cancer Communications
   2003 Plan and Budget Increase Request
   line

Goal

   Understand and apply the most effective communications approaches to
   maximize access to and use of cancer information by all who need it.

                                                               Top of Page

   line

The Opportunity

   It is not unusual today for newly diagnosed cancer patients to go to
   their doctors' appointments armed with printouts from CancerNet or
   other Web sites and lots of questions. People have more ways than ever
   to get information: by telephone, fax, email, the World Wide Web, TV
   and radio, and in person.
   And the future holds even more choices:
     * Automated monitoring of vital signs
     * Voice recognition software
     * Wider use of wireless technology
     * Other technologic advances to make it easier and faster for people
       anywhere to access the best information about cancer

   NCI's opportunity is to optimize the use of these tools while enhancing
   the absolutely essential interaction of patients with their doctors and
   nurses.
   Indeed, new communication tools can facilitate partnerships between
   patients and their physicians. We must push forward the frontiers of
   technology in support of the public, patients, their families, and
   medical teams to ensure access to individualized, high quality,
   NCI-validated information. From primary prevention to survivorship and
   end-of-life issues, communication empowers people to make informed
   cancer-related decisions and to engage in behaviors that will improve
   their health.
   To build on our progress in refining health communication theories and
   interventions, we must close major gaps in our understanding of how
   people access and use health information as well as the discrepancies
   between what is known and what is practiced. We must:
     * Provide accurate and balanced information about all areas of cancer
       prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and care.
     * Learn how to help people distinguish important health risks from
       insignificant ones and make informed choices despite exposure to
       contradictory or inaccurate health messages.
     * Inform healthcare providers of emerging best practices, help them
       become more effective communicators, and integrate communications
       into all aspects of cancer care.
     * Find and implement the best ways to disseminate research results to
       the cancer research community, medical practitioners, patients,
       individuals at risk, and the public.
     * Increase communication with patients about access to and
       participation in high quality clinical trials.
     * Reduce cancer-related health disparities through health
       communications research and activities.
     * Expand the cadre of health communications scientists and
       practitioners who conduct research and apply results.

   Through these efforts, we will gain a far richer understanding of how
   people use health information and access communications technologies of
   all kinds. We will use that understanding to improve outcomes in cancer
   prevention, early detection, and treatment and to improve the lives of
   cancer survivors and patients needing palliative care.

                                                               Top of Page

   line

The Changing Scene for Cancer Communications

   Changes in the role and accessibility of information are altering
   health care practices, patient-physician relationships, and the way
   consumers and patients acquire and use information.
     * In January 2001, 162 million people (58 percent of the U.S.
       population) accessed the Internet from home. (Nielsen//Net Ratings,
       February 2001)
     * The majority of Internet users have looked for medical and health
       information online.

     * About 57 percent have gone online to get medical information. (Pew
       Internet and American Life Project, February 2001)
     * Some percent of all online adults use the Internet to look for
       health care information; 24 percent go directly to a site that
       focuses only on health-related topics. (Harris Interactive, April
       2001)

     Approximately 55 percent of physicians use e-mail to communicate with
   colleagues; 13percent use it to communicate with their patients.
   (Harris Interactive, February 2001)

     More and more patients want to communicate with their physicians via
   the Internet.
     * 81 percent of online adults would like to receive e-mail reminders
       for preventive care.
     * 83 percent would like follow-up e-mails after doctor visits.
     * 84 percent would like their doctors to be able to access and
       monitor their lab tests online. (Harris Interactive, January 2001)

     Health insurers increasingly offer online patient-doctor
   consultations and reimburse doctors for their time. (Gannett News
   Service, April 23, 2001)

     In 2000, the Association of Cancer Online Resources (ACOR) delivered
   nearly 2 million individual e-mails weekly to cancer survivors, their
   loved ones, health care professionals, and members of the public who
   participate in ACOR's online services. (ACOR, April 2001).

                                                               Top of Page

   line

Progress in Pursuit of Our Goal

   Understanding Our Audience Groups
   Pilot Projects and Educational Materials
   Communications Toolkit
   NCI Education and Communication Products
   Communications Related to Clinical Trials
   Accelerating Research and Development of Interventions
   Improving Communication Channels
   Improving Dissemination of NCI Research Results
   Understanding Our Audience Groups
   To maximize the effectiveness of all our communications and to support
   communications research, planning, implementation, and evaluation, we
   are taking steps to collect, more effectively analyze, and disseminate
   critical information about our audience groups.
     * Planning for the Health Information National Trends Survey (HINTS)
       is well underway. HINTS, to be launched in 2002, will be the only
       national survey focused on cancer communications. It will gather
       information from about 9,000 participants on:

     * Health, sociodemographics, and access to health care
     * Knowledge about cancer
     * Risk perceptions
     * Cancer-related behaviors such as cancer prevention and screening
     * Data on such topics as personal cancer experience, social ties, and
       self efficacy.

   The data will be analyzed and made quickly available to the research
   community to inform future communications research and program planning
   for cancer as well as other health issues. Data will also be shared
   with the advocacy community through briefings and special reports.

     NCI staff are tapping a health and lifestyle information database to:
     * Identify and disseminate data on the information needs of specific
       audiences.
     * Develop appropriate educational messages.
     * Identify the best media, locations, and techniques for
       communicating cancer information.

     Staff also have developed and maintain a NewMediacy listserv that is
   narrowing the knowledge gap between the private and public sectors.

                                                               Top of Page

   line
   Pilot Projects and Educational Materials
   NCI-sponsored pilot projects and educational materials focus on
   increasing access to and use of cancer communications by all
   populations. Last year, NCI announced a new initiative and within the
   same fiscal year, funded four research and development projects to
   develop unique approaches for overcoming the cancer digital divide. The
   projects provide underserved groups with access to and the wealth of
   cancer information now available through computers. Each involves
   public-private partnerships, and one has resulted in a joint effort
   with the Markle Foundation for continued funding. (See NCI Supports
   Digital Divide Pilot Projects.)

                                                               Top of Page

   line
   Communications Toolkit
   NCI also is developing a communications toolkit to guide the
   development of health communications programs for underserved
   communities. It is designed to assist leaders and organizations in
   promoting health in their communities and addressing inequities in the
   quality of and access to cancer care. The kit will contain
   instructional materials and examples of proven strategies for effective
   cancer communications.

                                                               Top of Page

   line
   NCI Education and Communications Products
   New NCI education and communications products serve as essential tools
   for researchers, patients, and health care providers. Recent products
   include:
     * Understanding Cancer and Cancer-Related Tutorials on a mini-CD with
       built-in-viewer software.
     * A revised version of NCI's Breast Cancer Risk Assessment Tool on
       CD-ROM in English and Spanish.
     * Report of an evidence review of cancer-related decision aids funded
       through the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
     * Understanding Cancer Pain series
     * A searchable Risk Communication Bibliography
     * Efficacy of Interventions To Modify Dietary Behavior Related to
       Cancer Risk
     * 5 A Day for Better Health Program Evaluation Report
     * Materials on the Web and in print to inform seniors and people with
       disabilities about Medicare's new policy to provide coverage for
       clinical trials, developed through a partnership with the Centers
       for Medicare and Medicaid Services
     * A new cancer survivorship series, developed through a partnership
       with the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship
     * A booklet on genetic testing to help people at risk for inherited
       cancers and those who perceive themselves at risk decide whether to
       explore genetic counseling and testing for cancer susceptibility
     * A booklet to improve the way people think about and make use of
       data in health decision making.

                                                               Top of Page

   line
   Communications Related to Clinical Trials
   We are working to improve the quality and volume of communications
   related to clinical trials.
     * Research is underway to improve and assess the communication of
       risks, benefits, and other essential elements of the informed
       consent and decision making processes.
     * A Web-based educational program is assisting research teams with
       issues related to the protection of human participants in research.
     * And our new Cancer Clinical Trials Education Series provides
       clinical trials information to the public, health care
       professionals, and patient groups.

   See NCI's Challenge: Clinical Trials for more on clinical trials

                                                               Top of Page

   line
   Accelerating Research and Development of Interventions
   NCI has taken several steps for accelerating research and development
   of interventions.
   We solicited applications for grants to create up to five Centers of
   Excellence in Cancer Communications Research in Fiscal Year 2002. The
   response was excellent, showing that this initiative meets a real need
   in the research community. The Centers will:
     * Encourage focused interdisciplinary studies to accelerate
       scientific developments in cancer communications.
     * Increase the number of investigators from a range of disciplines
       who focus on the study of cancer communications.
     * Train investigators to conduct cutting-edge communications research
       directly relevant to the context of cancer prevention, detection,
       treatment, control, and survivorship.

   NCI also supported a Community Clinical Oncology Program based project
   for collecting data from newly diagnosed cancer patients to learn more
   about their special communication needs. This information will be used
   for program planning and to assess the need for additional research.

                                                               Top of Page

   line
   Improving communication channels
   Through the use of technology and in response to various needs, we are
   improving existing communication channels and developing new ones.
   NCI's NewsCenter Web site, launched in May 2001, provides journalists
   with:
     * Easy access to downloadable photos, graphics, video clips, and
       audio clips
     * Transcripts of interviews with NCI scientists
     * Traditional press releases and backgrounders
     * Customized links to other relevant NCI Web sites

   NCI also is using several new features on the Web including:
     * An instant messaging service to answer cancer questions submitted
       online
     * A natural language search system
     * The online NCI Publications Locator
     * New minimum standards for improved navigability, consistency, and
       usability

   A new Communication Technologies Research Center for usability testing,
   technology evaluation and demonstration, and training provides the
   tools needed to design evidence-based cancer information products and
   services.
   A new Emerging Technologies Unit searches out and applies new and
   evolving technologies to cancer communications.

                                                               Top of Page

   line
   Improving dissemination of NCI research results
   Several activities illustrate our commitment to improving dissemination
   of NCI research results. We are working to heighten researchers'
   understanding about the needs of end users of research products and to
   increase the usefulness of the products so they will benefit people.
   We have put in place several mechanisms to assist scientists in the
   dissemination of research findings:
     * To increase the likelihood that citizens will benefit from our
       investment in research, we are strengthening NCI's partnerships
       with voluntary health organizations, HMOs, and community
       organizations and are planning to fund in 2002 six to eight
       competitive supplements to NCI grantees who have effective cancer
       control interventions ready for dissemination.
     * We are convening, in collaboration with private organizations and
       other Federal agencies, an interdisciplinary group to develop
       recommendations for intervention researchers and encourage new
       partnerships among researchers, funders, and receiving
       organizations.
     * As a unique component of the Transdisciplinary Tobacco Use Research
       Center (TTURC) program, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, as a
       cosponsor, has funded hiring a specialist at each TTURC to
       facilitate communication with the public, researchers, and the
       media.
       See NCI's Opportunity in Tobacco Research for more information
     * In partnership with the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
       (AHRQ), we have commissioned an evidence-based review of effective
       strategies to facilitate dissemination of cancer-related
       interventions. We will communicate the results through the World
       Wide Web, print, and other channels.
     * In partnership with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
       we are helping to support a national demonstration to test a new
       Medicare smoking cessation benefit for older smokers, including
       dissemination of an evidence-based smoking cessation guide for
       smokers ages 50 and older and a guide for Spanish speaking Medicare
       beneficiaries.

                                                               Top of Page

   line

Recent Research Findings Related to Cancer Communications

   NCI Supports Digital Divide Pilot Projects
   NCI is supporting four research and development projects to overcome
   the digital divide by testing the efficacy of new communications
   technologies in cancer prevention and education.
   These projects involve partnerships among NCI-supported Cancer Centers
   and Cancer Information Service (CIS) Centers at universities and a wide
   range of community organizations and programs including Head Start,
   urban and rural community groups, senior centers, and computer
   suppliers. We will assess the results of the pilot projects and
   disseminate information about promising interventions.
     * A regional CIS office is partnering with a Cancer Center, a Head
       Start Center, a group concerned with urban policy, and a group that
       supplies computers to children to develop techniques for teaching
       Head Start parents how to use computers and access health
       information on the Web.
     * Another Cancer Center and regional CIS office are partnering to
       increase access to cancer information and the use of technology by
       residents of an economically depressed area in the community.
     * A university and two regional CIS offices are collaborating to
       promote the use of, and training by, peer advocates for a
       computer-based education program among underserved women diagnosed
       with breast cancer in a rural area in one state and an urban area
       in another.
       The project is helping some 280 African American women in the urban
       area play a larger role in their own care by providing them with
       access to online information. They are being trained in the use of
       laptop computers and are learning to get cancer information and
       support over the World Wide Web. These patients say it helps them
       connect with people and information at all hours of the day and
       night, especially when they are worried.
     * A collaboration between a university and a regional office of the
       CIS is examining the use of a low-literacy cancer information
       computer program to determine its potential to increase the use of
       new communication technologies for health information by older
       adults in a group of senior centers.

                                                               Top of Page

   line
   Study Shows Perceptions Can Change
   NCI-supported researchers have shown that the combination of tailored
   print materials and a call from a telephone health advisor can have
   several positive effects. This was the first study to show that women's
   perceived risks about breast cancer could be changed, and that the
   changes were maintained a year later. Women who received the
   combination of tailored communications also were more knowledgeable
   about breast cancer and mammography and were significantly more likely
   to get mammograms.

                                                               Top of Page

   line
   Research on Targeted and Tailored Communications Highlights Successes
   A group of NCI-sponsored health communications researchers recently
   teamed up to prepare articles for a special issue of the Journal of
   Family and Community Health. They reported on their efforts to develop
   communications for special populations, such as Asians, African
   Americans and Hispanics, and to individualize cancer information.
     * One team showed that focus groups could be conducted through the
       Internet and therefore could include people who would not otherwise
       participate.
     * Another group tested the feasibility of a tailored, interactive
       computerized cancer pain program for patients. In pilot research,
       the majority of patients said the computer programs were easy,
       enjoyable, and informative tools. The computer programs extend the
       reach of health professionals and permit better reporting of
       patients' pain and tailored advice based on each patient's unique
       pain profile.

                                                               Top of Page

   line

The Plan - Cancer Communications

   Goal
   Increase knowledge about, tools for, access to, and use of cancer
   communications by the public, consumers, patients, survivors, and
   health professionals - with a special focus on diverse populations - to
   accelerate reductions in the U.S. cancer burden.
   Fiscal Year 2003 Objectives, Milestones, and Funding Increases Needed

                                    SUMMARY
        1. Establish new data collection and analysis strategies.      $4.1 M
   2. Increase use of cancer communications, especially by underserved
                              populations.                             $2.5 M
    3. Accelerate research and development of interventions in cancer
                             communications.                           $1.5 M
   4. Develop a menu of communication choices to meet the needs of all
                                 users.                                $5.5 M
    5. Improve the science of dissemination and the dissemination of
                                science.                               $4.0 M
                         Management and Support                        $1.5 M
                                                                 TOTAL $19.1 M

                                                               Top of Page

    Objective 1: Establish new data collection and analysis strategies to
           support cancer communications planning and evaluation.
     * Analyze data from the Health Information National Trends Survey
       (HINTS) and make results available to researchers and program
       planners as early as possible.

                                   $1.00 M
     * Explore the use of Internet-based data collection to follow a
       subset of people interviewed as part of HINTS.

                                   $0.50 M
     * Conduct a HINTS survey of cancer survivors in parallel with the
       HINTS public survey to collect data on survivors' use of different
       media, their risk perceptions, cancer-related behaviors, personal
       cancer experiences, and use of complementary and alternative
       medicine.

                                   $1.50 M
     * Explore the need for national data collection about health
       professionals' communication practices.

                                   $0.35 M
     * Continue to operate the NewMediacy listserv and health and
       lifestyle database to inform NCI's planning and evaluation efforts
       about which audiences use which new media, and how they use them.

                                   $0.20 M
     * Create a searchable database of cancer-related communication
       research reports accessible to researchers and program planners.

                                   $0.50 M
                                TOTAL $4.1 M

                                                               Top of Page
   Objective 2: Increase access to and use of cancer communications by all
              populations, especially underserved populations.
     * Analyze and disseminate the results of four Digital Divide Pilot
       Projects to test strategies to increase access to and use of online
       and other interactive cancer communications by underserved
       populations.

                                   $0.50 M
     * Fund additional Digital Divide Pilot Projects and evaluate
       outcomes.

                                   $1.00 M
     * Transform the clinical trials Web portal to enable visitors to more
       quickly find information and resources.

                                   $1.00 M
                                TOTAL $2.5 M

                                                               Top of Page
       Objective 3: Accelerate the pace of research and development of
                   interventions in cancer communications.
     * Continue to support Centers of Excellence in Cancer Communications
       Research.


     * Establish interdisciplinary training partnerships and fund health
       communications laboratories to develop and conduct training
       programs for researchers in growing areas, including risk
       communications and interactive health communications.

                                   $1.5 M
                                TOTAL $1.5 M

                                                               Top of Page
   Objective 4: Develop a menu of communication choices to meet the needs
    of all users, and especially to increase knowledge about, tools for,
         access to, and use of these choices by diverse populations.
     * Develop new tools and products to facilitate cancer communications
       for the public, patients and their caregivers, underserved
       populations, advocacy groups, health professionals, and cancer
       communicators.

                                   $2.00 M
     * Continue work with the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
       to fund research on decision aids ("Making Quality Count for
       Consumers and Patients"). Link with Digital Divide Pilot Projects
       to promote dissemination and use of interactive communication tools
       and collect information on current levels of, and barriers to, use.

                                   $2.00 M
     * Assess the status of low-literacy research and national initiatives
       in order to develop a strategic plan for low-literacy programs and
       materials.

                                   $1.00 M
     * Develop and promote a media toolkit to facilitate the media's use
       of NCI's resources in preparing cancer-related stories.

                                   $0.50 M
                                TOTAL $5.5 M

                                                               Top of Page
   Objective 5: Improve the science of dissemination and the dissemination
   of science to assure that our citizens realize the benefits of research
                                investments.
     * Fund dissemination and diffusion supplements to grantees with
       proven interventions ready for dissemination.

                                   $4.00 M
                                TOTAL $4.00 M

                                                               Top of Page

Home | Site Map | FAQs | PDF | Privacy Policy | Accessibility | Contact Us
Last updated 11.15.01 (smz)

   W3C Validated

   Other U.S. Government Resources

   National Institutes of HeALT (NIH)
   Department of HeALT and Human Services
   FirstGov
       _______________________________________________________________
