http://www.al.noaa.gov/WWWHD/pubdocs/HotA/HotA.pdf

   =H ..1+- . ?A= E? = @ )J IFDAHE? 4AIA=H?D Progress Report The First
   Five Years 1995-1999 HEALTH OF THE ATMOSPHERE Progress Report  The
   First Five Years 1995-1999 November 1999 Copies of this report are
   available from: NOAA Aeronomy Laboratory Office of the Director, R/AL
   325 Broadway, Boulder Colorado 80303-3328 e-mail: aldiroff@al.noaa.gov
   phone: 303-497-3134 Fax: 303-497-5340 This report is also available on
   the Aeronomy Laboratory web site at http://www.al.noaa.gov/ NOAA Office
   of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research HEALTH OF THE ATMOSPHERE Progress
   Report  The First Five Years 1995-1999 Aeronomy Laboratory Air
   Resources Laboratory Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory
   Environmental Technology Laboratory TABLE OF CONTENTS Health of the
   Atmosphere - At a Glance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
   Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Selected Accomplishments . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Outreach . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . 23 Future Plans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Appendix A - Health of the
   Atmosphere Publications . . . . . . . . . . 35 Appendix B - List of
   Acronyms and Chemical Symbols . . . . . . . . 41 Health of the
   Atmosphere  At A Glance HEALTH OF THE ATMOSPHERE - AT A GLANCE NOAA's
   Health of the Atmosphere research is focused on the atmospheric science
   that underlies regional and continental air quality with the goal of
   improving our ability to predict and monitor future changes, leading to
   improved scientific input to decision- making. Research Goals
   Characterize regional ozone episodes: Characterize the origin of ozone
   in rural areas, where crop and forest damage are of increasing concern
   [e.g., Nashville/Middle Tennessee Ozone Study, 1995; plans include
   future studies in the Southeast, Southwest, and Mountain West] Document
   trends in air quality: Help evaluate predicted atmospheric responses to
   changes in emissions [i.e., the Atmospheric Integrated Research
   Monitoring Network (AIRMoN) and the ozone profiling network. Develop a
   better understanding of the fundamental science underlying the
   processes responsible for the formation and distribution of fine
   particles in the atmosphere: Improve the atmospheric predictive
   capability that links sources of fine particles and their precursors to
   human exposure and visibility impairment. The Participants The
   foundation of the Health of the Atmosphere research program is a NOAA
   inter- laboratory collaboration in creative partnership with the
   university research community. NOAA Laboratories: Aeronomy Laboratory
   Air Resources Laboratory Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory
   Environmental Technology Laboratory Universities: University of
   Colorado (Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences)
   Extramural Researchers (multiple universities) Budget Initiative 4 5 0
   0 4 0 0 0 Support for the Health of the 3 5 0 0 Atmosphere research
   program is part 3 0 0 0 2 5 0 0 of the "Long-Term Climate and Air 2 0 0
   0 Quality Research" line item of the 1 5 0 0 NOAA budget for the Office
   of Funding $(thousands) 1 0 0 0 Oceanic and Atmospheric Research 5 0 0
   * President's Budget 0 1 9 9 5 1 9 9 6 1 9 9 7 1 9 9 8 1 9 9 9 2 0 0 0
   * Year 1 Health of the Atmosphere Selected Accomplishments NOAA's
   research on regional chemistry and meteorology has found that...
   ...natural emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from
   vegetation are much larger than human-produced emissions of these
   compounds in almost all areas of the southeastern U.S. studied by NOAA.
   Thus, strategies focused on managing ozone through reductions in VOC
   emissions may not be fully effective in rural areas or in cities with
   abundant vegetation, such as Atlanta. ...the contribution of natural
   VOCs to ozone formation was significantly different in different parts
   of the country. The contribution was greatest in the heavily forested
   areas of the Southeast and less important in the farmlands of the
   Midwest. The mix of natural and human-influenced emissions may require
   consideration of different ozone management strategies in different
   parts of the country. ...the previous scientific picture of the
   chemistry of power plant plumes may not be accurate . NOAA's Health of
   the Atmosphere research is leading the way to a new scientific
   understanding of how power plant emissions effect ozone pollution.
   NOAA's findings are particularly timely since current ozone strategies
   focus on reducing emissions from rural power plants. ...the
   redistribution of ozone pollution that occurs at night plays a major
   role in transporting urban ozone into rural areas. Our current picture
   of ozone transport is dominated by what happens during the day. New
   observing systems developed by NOAA are changing the way we look at
   ozone transport; how cities effect air quality in rural areas and vice
   versa. NOAA has developed an atmospheric model that can be used to
   estimate the amounts of gaseous and particulate air pollution that are
   deposited to sensitive ecosystems. The "Dry Deposition Inferential
   Method" has been adopted by the EPA for use in their Clean Air Status
   and Trends Network (CASTNet) and is used extensively worldwide to
   quantify trends in air pollution deposition. Future Research Foci
   Future research will focus on: Connections between ozone and fine
   particle formation: The two most difficult air pollutants to manage are
   often formed and transported together. A better understanding of their
   interaction is critical to improved prediction. Nighttime chemistry and
   transport: Air pollutants can be transported long distances overnight
   and can "jump start" pollution episodes hundreds of kilometers
   downwind. Pollutant mixing and transport: Current regional air quality
   models are limited in their ability to properly simulate pollutant
   mixing and transport, resulting in impaired prediction and
   environmental policies. 2 Introduction INTRODUCTION Background Air
   quality in the United States has improved dramatically in almost all
   respects during the three decades since the Clean Air Act was passed.
   Much of the oppressive pollution that characterized the Nation's cites
   is a distant memory. The Nation now enjoys better air quality than at
   any time in recent memory. However, there are still areas of the
   country where the Public is exposed to unhealthy levels of air
   pollutants and damage to sensitive ecosystems is occurring. The Air
   Quality Research Subcommittee of the White House's Committee on the
   Environment and Natural Resources (CENR) has identified1 the five most
   pressing air quality issues that face the Nation today. It is in these
   areas that new and innovative approaches are most urgently needed if we
   are to manage air quality while sustaining economic growth. Ozone and
   associated air pollutants Particulate matter and visibility Air toxics
   Indoor air quality Acidic deposition Most pressing U.S. air quality
   issues identified by the Air Quality Research Subcommittee of the CENR
   1. While the Health of the Atmosphere research will provide new science
   that will contribute to a better understanding of all of these issues,
   the program specifically focuses on these three: * Ozone and associated
   pollutants * Particles and visibility * Acidic deposition Clearly,
   these issues are not completely independent and many of the associated
   phenomena are interrelated. For example, the same complex chemistry
   that produces 1 Air Quality Research Subcommittee Strategic Plan,
   Committee on Environment and Natural Resources, National Science and
   Technology Council, Washington, D.C., November 1998. 3 Health of the
   Atmosphere ozone also results in the formation of fine particles and
   the acids found in acidic deposition (acid rain). The key atmospheric
   processes that control the formation and distribution of pollutants in
   the atmosphere can be divided into two important categories, those
   associated with chemical and physical transformations and those
   associated with the transport and mixing of air pollutants. The former
   controls the form and phase (gas, particle, cloud) of the pollution;
   the latter controls the distribution (in space and time) and deposition
   of pollution. The ambient concentration and composition (in the case of
   particles, and cloud and rain drops) is a function of the complex
   interplay depicted below. Clouds Cloud Cloud Particles Reactants
   Condensation Condensation Products Nuclei Nuclei Primary: dust, soot,
   fly ash, etc. SO2, O3 Secondary: ammonium sulfate ammonium peroxides
   sulfate ammonium nitrate NH3 semi-volatile organics TRANSFORMATION
   TRANSFORMATION O O33/peroxides /peroxides Gas-Phase NH NH33 Products
   Reactants O NO 3/peroxides x HO oxygenated VOCs VOCs ROO sulfuric acid
   SO2 nitric acid Transport & Mixing Horizontal & Vertical Daytime &
   Nighttime Cloud venting TRANSPORT TRANSPORT Emissions Deposition
   Man-made & Natural Dry (gases & particles) NO Wet (rain, clouds & snow)
   x, VOCs, SO 2, NH3 primary particles sulfate, nitrate,O 3, organics
   soot, NH3, SO2 Atmospheric processes that control the formation and
   distribution of pollution in the atmosphere Once emitted into the
   atmosphere, primary pollutants (those in blue above) such as sulfur
   dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen oxides (NOx) are converted in the presence
   of sunlight into secondary pollutants (those in red above) such as
   sulfuric acid, nitric acid and ozone. All 4 Introduction the while,
   this complex mix of pollutants is being transported by the winds and
   mixed throughout the atmosphere. The ability to accurately forecast
   changes in air quality and pollution deposition that result from
   changes in primary pollution emissions is essential to the development
   of sound environmental policies. It is only through an understanding of
   the science that underlies these processes that such a predictive
   capability can be developed. Goals and Objectives NOAA's Health of the
   Atmosphere research is focused on the atmospheric science that
   underlies regional and continental air quality, with the goal of
   improving our ability to predict and monitor future changes, leading to
   improved scientific input to decision- making. There are three major
   research goals: * Characterize regional ozone episodes: Investigate the
   origin of ozone in rural areas, where crop and forest damage are of
   increasing concern. Quantify rural/urban ozone exchange. Ozone
   transported from surrounding rural areas provides a "starting point"
   for urban ozone episodes, often contributing the majority of the
   measured ozone in urban areas. Conversely, ozone produced in urban
   areas is a major contributor to rural ozone levels. * Determine trends
   in regional air quality and deposition to sensitive ecosystems and
   their relationship to emission reductions instituted under the Clean
   Air Act. * Provide new science related to ozone and particulate matter
   formation and distribution: The recently enacted National Ambient Air
   Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ozone and particulate matter are
   significantly more challenging, with compliance targets set at much
   lower levels, and are expected to result in a significant increase in
   the number of areas of the country designated as "nonattainment".
   Approach The science of the Health of the Atmosphere research program
   is an integration of laboratory, field, and theoretical studies, a
   synergism that optimizes the research in each area while maximizing the
   overall benefits of the program. Laboratory investigations characterize
   and quantify fundamental properties of chemical reactions, which are
   needed by predictive models and point the way to specific field study
   approaches. Field campaigns provide the observations to test the
   predictive capabilities of models, as well 5 Health of the Atmosphere
   as indicate the potential for hitherto unknown processes that should be
   examined in the laboratory. Theoretical models embody the current
   understanding of the underlying science and, via sensitivity studies,
   can evaluate the impact of specific processes and emissions on
   continental and regional air quality. These analyses can be used to
   identify those areas where improved understanding will result in the
   biggest payoff, providing direction for laboratory investigations and
   aiding in the design of regional field campaigns. The development of
   improved observational tools and techniques is an important part of
   Health of the Atmosphere research. Often, advances in understanding of
   these complex systems are limited by our ability to reliably
   characterize key atmospheric parameters. The development of new
   observing systems is guided by needs identified in the laboratory,
   field and theoretical studies described above. The Health of the
   Atmosphere research is truly a team effort with contributions from the
   following NOAA laboratories: * Aeronomy Laboratory  lead * Air
   Resources Laboratory * Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory *
   Environmental Technology Laboratory The capabilities of the scientists
   from these laboratories are augmented by colleagues from the University
   of Colorado Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental
   Sciences (CIRES) and a variety of other university scientists. The
   combination is a diverse and capable team with the technical depth and
   breadth and facilities needed to address the complex scientific
   problems presented. Our Products The principal "product" of the Health
   of the Atmosphere research program is scientific information on
   atmospheric processes that is needed for an improved predictive
   understanding of the chemical and dynamical behavior of the atmosphere.
   This new information is communicated to our "customers" through several
   mechanisms, including: Technical presentations and peer-reviewed
   publications: The scientific papers that result from Health of the
   Atmosphere research are one of the most tangible records of our
   products. The listing of 1995-1998 peer-reviewed publications in
   Appendix A is an indication of the quality, quantity, and breadth of
   research that the Health of the Atmosphere investments have produced.
   Web-based data sets and other data archives: The data generated in this
   program are a valuable resource with applications beyond those
   envisioned by the participating scientists. For example, data from the
   major field campaigns are being used by state and federal regulators in
   the development of local and regional management plans and by other
   parts of NOAA to provide improved weather forecasts. 6 Introduction
   State-of science assessments: State-of-science assessments are the
   primary mechanism for communicating scientific information to
   policymakers. The Health of the Atmosphere research strives to be
   "policy relevant" without being "policy driven". Therefore, we are
   responsible for ensuring that the results of our research are provided
   to decisionmakers in a "user-friendly" format. This is accomplished
   primarily through contributions to state-of-science assessments. In
   1996, the NARSTO (formerly known as the North American Research
   Strategy for Tropospheric Ozone) community committed to the preparation
   of a state-of-science assessment of rural ozone chemistry. This
   assessment is intended to review and synthesize the policy-relevant
   research on rural ozone, providing a consensus interpretation of the
   relevant science that can form the basis of effective ozone management
   strategies. Dan Albritton (NOAA, AL) is a member of the Synthesis Team
   for the assessment. Ken Schere (NOAA, ARL), the Assessment co-chair,
   and the following chapter authors are being supported through Health of
   the Atmosphere: Daniel Jacob (Harvard University) - Heterogeneous
   Chemistry and Tropospheric Ozone W.D. Neff (NOAA, ETL) - Advances in
   Meteorological Measurement Methods for Application to Air Quality
   Research and Monitoring D.D. Parrish, F.C. Fehsenfeld (both NOAA, AL) -
   Methods for Gas-Phase Measurements of Ozone, Ozone Precursors and
   Aerosol Precursors M. Trainer, D.D. Parrish, P.D. Goldan, J. Roberts,
   F.C. Fehsenfeld (all NOAA, AL) - Regional Factors Influencing Ozone
   Concentrations M.L. Wesely, B.B. Hicks (NOAA, ARL) - Recent Progress in
   Dry Deposition Studies Our Customers The information products described
   above serve as input to the goals, services, missions, etc. of a
   variety of institutions and organizations. A few examples are provided
   here. Our Colleagues: Our science is not performed in a vacuum; we
   benefit from those who have come before us and we contribute to a
   larger body of knowledge where broader perspectives and insights come
   from collaborative analyses. It is therefore important that we
   communicate the results of our research to the research communities in
   which we work. This is accomplished primarily through specialized
   scientific meetings, collaborative endeavors such as NARSTO and the
   Southern Oxidants Study (SOS), and peer-reviewed publication.
   Governments: Air quality issues are at the forefront of the Nation's
   environmental agenda. The EPA has sponsored a series of regulatory
   initiatives that serve to "raise the bar" in terms of clean air
   standards. Current regulatory efforts are focused on developing
   management strategies for several secondary pollutants: * Acidic
   deposition: The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 included provisions
   for the annual reduction of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions
   by 10 million and 7 Health of the Atmosphere 5 million tons,
   respectively. Reductions are to be phased in over a ten-year period
   beginning in 1990. * Surface ozone: In 1997, the EPA revised the air
   quality standard for surface ozone. The level of the standard was
   lowered from 120 ppb, 1-hr average, to 80 ppb, 8-hr average. This
   change is predicted to result in an increase in the number of areas out
   of compliance from 36 to 280. * Particulate matter : In 1997, the EPA
   revised the air quality standard for particulate matter (PM) by adding
   a new standard that targets smaller particles (PM2.5  particles with
   aerodynamic diameters £ 2.5 microns). The new 24-hr PM2.5 standard is
   65 micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m3) while the new annual standard is
   15 µg/m3. This change is predicted to result in a significant increase
   in the number of areas out of compliance. * Regional haze: In 1999, EPA
   promulgated new regulations to improve visibility in National Parks and
   Wilderness Areas in the U.S. These regulations target the same fine
   particles that are regulated under the PM standards and will require
   significant reduction in fine particle levels in these pristine areas.
   It is clear that EPA, in an effort to protect public health and the
   environment, is regulating air pollutants such as ozone and particulate
   matter at ever lower levels. As regulated levels are decreased, the
   roles of regional and global processes become increasingly important.
   Under these circumstances, NOAA's regional and continental approach to
   air quality, manifested through the Health of the Atmosphere research,
   will play a greater role by providing information that will aid EPA in
   the development and evaluation of regulations and assist the States in
   designing effective compliance strategies. Industry: In addition to the
   state-of-science assessments noted above, the Health of the Atmosphere
   research results are an important input to industry. A notable example
   is the new insights on the role of rural power plants in the formation
   of ozone that are being developed that challenge the previous picture
   of plume chemistry. These findings are particularly timely since
   current ozone strategies focus on reducing emissions from rural power
   plants. NOAA is working closely with the Electric Power Research
   Institute and individual utilities to provide an early "heads-up", thus
   avoiding costly missteps. The public: We are committed to translating
   the results of our research into "user friendly" terms, making the
   science accessible to as broad an audience as possible. Our approach is
   to prepare short, readable publications that describe the science in
   lay terms and to continue to work with the media to publicize the work
   we do and explain its importance and implications. We also take every
   opportunity to describe the understanding of environmental science in
   schools, town meetings, and local clubs. 8 Introduction Funding Since
   its inception in 1995, the Health of the Atmosphere program has enjoyed
   strong support, both from NOAA management and the Congress. In
   providing this support the Congress recognizes the difficult issues
   that face the Nation as we 4 5 0 0 work to manage continental and 4 0 0
   0 regional air quality and the 3 5 0 0 important contribution NOAA has
   3 0 0 0 to make in crafting workable 2 5 0 0 solutions. Funding for the
   Health 2 0 0 0 of the Atmosphere research has 1 5 0 0 grown steadily
   over the life of the Funding $(thousands) 1 0 0 0 program as the value
   of the results 5 0 0 has became apparent and the 0 1 9 9 5 1 9 9 6 1 9
   9 7 1 9 9 8 1 9 9 9 2 0 0 0 * scope of the program has been Year
   expanded. *President's budget E x t r a m u r a l 7 % CMDL As noted
   above, the program is a partnership between 4 % ARL several NOAA
   laboratories (led by the Aeronomy 1 1 % Laboratory in Boulder, CO) and
   the university community. The allocation of funding for FY 1999 is A l
   shown on the left. Funding for CIRES scientists is 5 3 % included in
   the budgets for the NOAA laboratories. ETL 2 5 % 9 Health of the
   Atmosphere A NOAA WP-3 "hurricane hunter", doing double duty as a
   flying air quality laboratory, works in the haze over Tennessee during
   the 1995 Southern Oxidants Study field campaign. A large coal-burning
   power plant can be seen in the background. The unique capabilities of
   this aircraft and its extensive array of on- board instrumentation has
   led to important new insights into the atmospheric processes that
   influence regional air quality. 10 Selected Accomplishments SELECTED
   ACCOMPLISHMENTS Testing the importance of natural emissions from
   forests on regional ozone formation The relative importance of natural
   volatile organic compounds (VOCs). If ozone (O3) concentrations are to
   be successfully managed by the implementation of primary emission
   controls, it is essential that the role of naturally produced VOCs
   vis-a-vis the manmade VOCs be thoroughly understood. Hardwood forests,
   particularly those in the South, emit large quantities of isoprene, a
   very reactive VOC that readily produces ozone when mixed with nitrogen
   oxides (NOx) in the presence of sunlight. It has become clear in the
   past decade through our research that while most of the NOx involved in
   regional pollution is anthropogenic in origin, both biogenic or natural
   (BHC) and anthropogenic or man-made (AHC) hydrocarbons contribute to
   regional ozone formation. The relative importance of BHCs and AHCs to
   O3 formation must be properly understood so that effective control
   strategies for regional ozone can be formulated. Measurements of
   products provide an indicator. Our research has provided a method to
   address this problem by providing an observational means to estimate
   the impact that BHCs and AHCs have on O3 formation chemistry. This
   method relies on measurements of three related peroxy nitrate
   compounds, PAN, PPN, and MPAN, that are bi-products of the same
   chemistry that produces ozone. However, MPAN is a unique product of
   isoprene, the most important reactive BHC, while PPN is essentially
   solely produced from AHCs and PAN is a general product of both BHC and
   AHC chemistry. The simultaneous measurement of these product species
   provides the opportunity to determine the relative effectiveness of
   biogenic as opposed to anthropogenic compounds in ozone-forming
   atmospheric chemistry. The three compounds were measured aboard the
   NOAA WP-3 aircraft during the 1995 Southern Oxidants Study in and
   around Nashville, Tennessee, along with O3, NOx, hydrocarbons, and a
   number of other chemical and meteorological quantities. These represent
   the first airborne measurements of PAN, PPN and MPAN. Moreover, this
   capability was used to arrive at quantitative estimates of the effect
   of BHC and AHC chemistry on O3 formation. What was found? From these
   measurements, it was found that isoprene chemistry dominated ozone
   formation in the forested rural areas of the Nashville/Middle Tennessee
   region. However, the contribution of isoprene to rural ozone formation
   was found to decrease significantly with increasing latitude (i.e.,
   from south to north). This decrease paralleled a similar decrease in
   isoprene emissions with latitude as predicted by current biogenic
   emission inventories derived from inventories of forest density and
   type. Williams, J., J.M. Roberts, F.C. Fehsenfeld, S.B. Bertman, M.P.
   Buhr, P.D. Goldan, G. Hübler, W.C. Kuster, T.B. Ryerson, M. Trainer,
   and V. Young, Regional ozone from biogenic hydrocarbons deduced from
   airborne measurements of PAN, PPN, and MPAN, Geophysical Research
   Letters, 24, 1099-1102, 1997. 11 Health of the Atmosphere Role of
   carbon monoxide and methane in regional ozone formation Long range
   transport of longer-lived ozone precursors can be important. It is well
   known that the elevated ozone concentrations that frequently are found
   during the summer over the eastern United States are potentially
   harmful to humans and damaging to crops and forests. It is now believed
   that during the summer most ozone in the eastern U.S. is produced
   photochemically by the interaction of sunlight on ozone precursors.
   However, once produced, the lifetimes of ozone and certain ozone
   precursors are sufficiently long so that they can be transported over
   great distances. For this reason, ozone concentrations in a particular
   location may depend on the amount of ozone and ozone precursors
   transported from outside the local region. VERTICAL PROFILE 3500 3500
   72 Km WEST OF NASHVILLE VERTICAL PROFILE 75 Km NORTH OF INDIANAPOLIS
   3000 3000 CO CO Methane Methane ) 2500 C2 - C6 NMHC 2500 C2 - C6 NMHC
   DE (m Isoprene Isoprene 2000 2000 LTITU URE A 1500 1500 PRESSURE
   ALTITUDE (m)PRESS 1000 1000 500 500 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 OH LOSS
   RATE (sec-1) OH LOSS RATE (sec-1) Importance of carbon monoxide
   relative to non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHCs) as an ozone precursor
   evaluated over a wide region. An analysis of the data taken during the
   course of regional flights over the southeastern and midwestern U.S.
   during the 1995 Nashville/Middle Tennessee Study of the Southern
   Oxidants Study suggests that carbon monoxide makes a significant
   contribution to ozone formation in regions where isoprene levels are
   depressed (i.e., in the boundary layer in urban plumes, in the upper
   Midwest and in the free troposphere). The more reactive VOCs have high
   removal rates and their absence suggests a lack of nearby sources of
   these VOCs. Both CO and CH4 have a variety of natural and anthropogenic
   sources and are produced by the oxidation of more complicated
   hydrocarbons. Moreover, during a typical midsummer period, both CO and
   CH4 are long-lived compounds with atmospheric lifetimes of one to
   several months. Hence, the exact sources of these compounds at a
   particular location will be difficult to determine. 12 Selected
   Accomplishments Carbon monoxide can contribute significantly to
   photochemical ozone formation. The apparent importance of methane and
   CO in ozone formation in the regions described above necessitates their
   consideration in future ozone management strategies. The role of CH4
   and CO should be expected to be further enhanced as emissions of more
   reactive VOCs continue to decline. Golden, P.D., D.D. Parrish, W.
   Kuster, M. Trainer, S. McKeen, J. Holloway, T. Jobson, D. Sueper, and
   F.C. Fehsenfeld, Airborne measurements of isoprene, CO, and
   anthropogenic hydrocarbons and their precursors, Journal of Geophysical
   Research , in press, 1999. Trainer, M., D.D. Parrish, P.D. Goldan, J.
   Roberts, and F.C. Fehsenfeld; Regional factors influencing ozone
   concentrations, Atmospheric Environment, in press, 1999. Inefficient
   ozone formation in plumes NOx reduction to control ozone. The
   photochemical production of ozone requires nitrogen oxides (NOx).
   Hence, a control strategy that is presently being pursued is to reduce
   the photochemically formed ozone by reducing the emission of NOx. This
   is being done by reducing the emissions of NOx from large point sources
   such as power plants, which on a nationwide basis contribute a
   substantial fraction of the NOx emitted from all sources. Since O3
   production is non-linear with the amount of NOx emitted, the wisdom of
   this approach requires further scrutiny. Results from studies of power
   plant plumes. These measurements were made as part of the 1995
   Nashville/Middle Tennessee Study of the Southern Oxidants Study (SOS).
   Cross-plume pollutant profiles obtained by the NOAA WP-3D were combined
   with detailed wind fields to investigate O3 formation at various
   downwind distances for several pollutant sources with very different
   NOx emissions. The analysis of these data from the measurements that
   were made in 1994 and 1995 indicate that NOx removal occurred quickly
   and that O3 production in these plumes was much less efficient than
   ozone production from more dispersed NOx sources. Ozone production per
   unit of NOx emission appears to be greatest for the Nashville urban
   plume and for the smaller NOx emitting power plants that are located in
   areas rich in natural VOC emissions. Ozone production was found to be
   less efficient for NOx emitted from rural power plants with the higher
   NOx emissions. 13 Health of the Atmosphere 5 NOx source strength:
   Cumberland ª 8 4 Paradise ª 5 Johnsonville ª 1 3 2 1 Ozone production
   efficiency 0 -1 0 2 4 6 8 10 Plume air parcel age, hours Ozone
   production efficiency as a function of NO x emission rate for three
   power plants. Implication for emission controls. The implications of
   these findings are significant in terms of strategies that are being
   proposed to manage ozone by regulating sources of NOx. The approach
   currently being pursued would reduce NOx emissions by reducing the
   emission of NOx from large point sources. However, our results suggest
   that the effectiveness in reducing photochemically produced ozone
   pollution may be substantially less than what might be expected with
   relatively large reductions in NOx. These data suggest that one could
   get more "bang for the buck" by controlling smaller sources. The
   results also suggest that the trading of NOx emissions from power
   plants over long distances may be of limited value in reducing ozone
   nonattainment, since ozone production appears to occur relatively near
   the source. Ryerson, T.B., M.P. Buhr, G. Frost, P.D. Goldan, J.S.
   Holloway, G. Hübler, B.T. Jobson, W.C. Kuster, S.A. McKeen, D.D.
   Parrish, J.M. Roberts, D.T. Sueper, M. Trainer, J. Williams, and F.C.
   Fehsenfeld, Emissions lifetimes and ozone formation in power plant
   plumes, Journal of Geophysical Research , 103, 22569-22584, 1998.
   Testing the mechanisms for isoprene oxidation The importance of
   isoprene oxidation. The regional ozone pollution problem has long
   resisted control and management strategies and remains one of our most
   important air quality issues. Reasons for the persistence of this
   problem have to do with the fact that O3 is not emitted directly from
   pollution sources, but is produced photochemically from the oxides of
   nitrogen (NOx) and VOCs that are derived from a variety of sources.
   During the last decade, largely as a result of NOAA research, there has
   been a growing appreciation for the role of summertime biogenic VOC
   emissions from vegetation in photochemical ozone formation, both in
   heavily forested urban areas as well as in rural areas. These biogenic
   VOC emissions are largely in the form of isoprene, a highly reactive,
   unsaturated hydrocarbon. Our studies indicate that the influence of the
   oxidation of this isoprene on regional ozone formation can be great.
   Clearly, therefore, it is essential that the mechanisms developed
   through laboratory kinetic measurements that 14 Selected
   Accomplishments are thought to control isoprene oxidation be subjected
   to independent careful verification by field measurements. Observations
   of the oxidation products confirm oxidation mechanisms. Laboratory
   measurements have indicated that methacrolein, methyl vinyl ketone and
   3-methyl furan are the principal molecular byproducts directly formed
   by the HO-initiated oxidation of isoprene. Measurements of these
   compounds along with isoprene were carried out at a rural site in
   Alabama. The analysis of these measurements, using a one-dimensional
   model simulation, showed that their relative and absolute
   concentrations are in good agreement with the present understanding of
   the photochemistry of isoprene. The model interpretations of these
   measurements also indicated that the oxidation of isoprene could
   adequately account for all the methacrolein, methyl vinyl ketone and
   3-methyl furan that was observed. Implication of the research. In
   addition to the measurements of the specific peroxy- nitrate compound
   MPAN that is formed in the oxidation of methacrolein, these
   measurements confirm the oxidation schemes for isoprene that have been
   developed in the laboratory and support the importance of the role that
   isoprene can play in the regional formation of ozone. It should also be
   noted that the development of effective ozone control strategies is
   dependent on the knowledge of the emission rate of natural hydrocarbons
   such as isoprene in urban as well as rural areas. Due to its high
   photochemical reactivity, the concentrations of isoprene are spatially
   highly variable and are influenced by vegetation in close vicinity of
   the measurement location. However, due to their longer photochemical
   lifetime, the concentrations of methacrolein and methyl vinyl ketone
   will be representative for the emissions of isoprene over a larger
   fetch. Ambient measurements of these oxidation products in settings
   with highly inhomogeneous distribution of isoprene-emitting vegetation,
   such as urban areas, provide a more stringent test of the role that
   isoprene plays in urban and regional ozone formation. Montzka, S.A., M.
   Trainer, W.M. Angevine, and F.C. Fehsenfeld, Measurements of 3- methyl
   furan, methyl vinyl ketone, and methacrolein at a rural forested site
   in the southeastern United States, Journal of Geophysical Research ,
   100, 11393 - 11401, 1995. Frost, G.J., M. Trainer, G. Allwine, M.P.
   Buhr, J.G. Calvert, C.A. Cantrell, F.C. Fehsenfeld, P.D. Goldan, J.
   Herwehe, G.F. Hübler, W.C. Kuster, R. Martin, R.T. McMillen, S.A.
   Montzka, R.B. Norton, D.D. Parrish, B.A. Ridley, R.E. Shetter, J.G.
   Walega, B.A. Watkins, H.H. Westberg, and E.J. Williams, Photochemical
   Ozone production in the rural southeastern United States during the
   1990 ROSE program, Journal of Geophysical Research , 103, 22491-22508,
   1998. Ozone and fine particle formation and distribution during
   stagnation episodes Urban pollution accumulates during stagnations.
   Conditions that lead to the highest hourly urban ozone concentrations
   are characterized by abundant sunshine and light 15 Health of the
   Atmosphere winds. Under these conditions, pollutants accumulate near
   the source region and can reach levels in excess of Federal standards.
   The very highest concentrations are expected during the lightest winds,
   i.e., during stagnation conditions. During the 1995 SOS Nashville
   campaign, a 3-day stagnation episode occurred in mid July. NOAA
   scientists employed an airborne O3 differential-absorption lidar (DIAL)
   to study the formation and transport of ozone and aerosols under these
   conditions at a level of detail that has not previously been possible.
   The airborne lidar provides unique insights into pollution formation
   and distribution. The lidar provides vertical cross sections of O3
   concentration and aerosol backscatter along the flight path of the
   aircraft. Examples of data collected during the July 1995 stagnation
   episode are provided below. Vertical cross section of O 3
   concentrations (ppbv) from NW to SE over Nashville on 12 July 1995.
   Abscissa is in hours (CDT) and minutes of flight time; each minute
   represents 4 km distance, so entire leg is ~110 km. What have we
   learned? Analysis of O3 and aerosol backscatter cross sections obtained
   during the stagnation has resulted in a clearer view of the processes
   responsible for pollution accumulation. * Daytime accumulation. Cross
   sections over the city on 12 July, the middle day of the 3- day
   episode, showed that the urban pollutants formed a dome over the urban
   area. Significant O3 reached ~1.6 km above the surface, and O3
   concentrations exceeding 120 ppb extended to >1.2 km. The presence of
   this deep mixed layer mitigated the ozone concentrations, to some
   extent, by providing a larger mixing volume. A horizontal plot of O3
   along the flight track shows that the pollution remained very 16
   Selected Accomplishments close to Nashville. The data clearly indicate
   that, at least on this occasion, emissions from the Nashville urban
   area were responsible for most of the ozone over the city. *
   Variability in mixing height. Another important result of the light
   horizontal winds during stagnation is that local differences in land
   use can express themselves as local differences in mixing height. On
   the middle day of the episode a difference of ~500m in mixing height
   was noted over a horizontal distance of a few 10's of kms between the
   forested land to the west through northwest of Nashville and the
   farming and pasture land in the other directions around the city. This
   observation has significant implications for both observed pollution
   levels and transport across these regions of varied land use. Aerosol
   backscatter cross section from flight leg shown above. Mixing height h
   is height where larger values in mixed layer decrease rapidly with
   altitude to smaller values aloft. Cross section shows lower h values to
   NW of city (left part of figure) than over or to the SE of the urban
   area. Banta, R.M., C.J. Senff, A.B. White, M. Trainer, R.T. McNider,
   R.J. Valente, S.D. Mayor, R.J. Alvarez II, R.M. Hardesty, D.D. Parrish,
   and F.C. Fehsenfeld, Daytime buildup and nighttime transport of urban
   ozone in the boundary layer during a stagnation episode, Journal of
   Geophysical Research , 103, 22519-22544, 1998. The production,
   destruction, and transport of ozone in power plant plumes Rural power
   plants produce a significant fraction of the Nation's NO x emissions.
   EPA's new "NOx rule" targets fossil-fueled power plants in the East in
   an effort to reduce regional ozone levels. A better understanding of
   the contribution of these sources to regional pollution levels will aid
   in an evaluation of this approach. 17 Health of the Atmosphere Which
   measurements were performed to characterize power plant plumes? The
   NOAA/ETL's airborne O3 and aerosol lidar was used in conjunction with
   in situ sampling to investigate power plant plumes in the Nashville
   area during the 1995 SOS campaign. The downward-looking lidar was used
   to map out the two-dimensional structure of the plume at multiple
   distances downwind from the plant, providing information on plume size,
   shape, and the vertical distribution of ozone and aerosols. The plume
   location with respect to the top of the boundary layer was determined
   using the lidar aerosol returns to provide information on the boundary
   layer height. In addition, the lidar ozone data was used to calculate
   ozone production rates in the plume as a function of distance downwind.
   What we learned. The location and transport of the plumes was a
   function of the height and strength of the capping inversion. On one
   occasion, when there was strong vertical mixing, the power plant plume
   was spread across the entire depth of the boundary layer but did not
   reach into the free troposphere. The plume was shaped symmetrically and
   had a clearly defined, single core (Fig. 1). On another occasion, part
   of the power plant plume had penetrated the inversion capping the
   boundary layer. Subject to different meteorological conditions, the two
   portions of the plume above and below the boundary layer top evolved
   differently as they were transported downwind, resulting in a very
   irregular shape and a near breakup of the plume (Fig. 2). In both
   cases, we found that close to the power plant O3 was destroyed in the
   plume, while farther downwind ozone was produced at rates of up to 4
   ppb/hr. The latter confirms that NOx-rich power plant plumes have the
   potential of raising local ozone levels significantly over the course
   of a day. OZONE ppbv from 276.9 and 291.6 nm 0 20 40 60 80 100 1800
   1800 1600 1600 1400 1400 (m MSL) 1200 1200 1000 1000 Altitude 800 800
   600 600 11:17 11:18 11:19 11:20 11:21 11:22 11:19 11:20 11:21 11:22
   11:23 11:24 Fig. 1 Fig. 2 Senff, C.J., R.M. Hardesty, R.J. Alvarez II,
   and S.D. Mayor, Airborne lidar characterization of power plant plumes
   during the 1995 Southern Oxidants Study, Journal of Geophysical
   Research , in press, 1999. 18 Selected Accomplishments Nighttime winds
   are a key factor in daytime ozone levels Stagnation episode. The
   highest ozone concentrations measured during the 1995 SOS
   Nashville/Middle Tennessee Ozone Study (138 ppb  1-hr avg.) occurred
   during a period of intense stagnation in mid July. However, during this
   period, midmorning O3 concentrations were much lower, suggesting that
   pollution that had accumulated over the city the previous day had been
   transported away during the night. The role of nocturnal transport.
   While daytime winds were weak during the stagnation episode (80% of the
   wind speeds measured in the boundary layer were less than 3 m s-1),
   nighttime winds above the nocturnal boundary layer accelerated to 510 m
   s-1, as they became decoupled from the surface-induced friction. In
   addition, the nocturnal winds rotated in time and with height in
   accordance with the principles of the inertial oscillation. These
   rotations are visible, for example, in the forward trajectories
   calculated from the boundary-layer wind profiler network. The pandemic
   nature of the inertial oscillation during the 1995 field study was
   demonstrated by McNider et al. (1998). They computed energy spectra
   from the velocity components measured with the wind profilers for the
   entire campaign. These spectra exhibited a prominent peak at a period
   of ~20 hr, which agrees with the expected inertial period for
   Nashville. The important role of these nocturnal accelerations in
   redistributing the Nashville urban plume was described by Banta et al.
   (1998). They used the wind profiler trajectories shown below to predict
   the overnight movement of the urban plume on 11 July. Enhanced ozone
   was detected on the morning of 12 July by airborne DIAL and in situ
   measurements near the locations and altitudes predicted by the
   trajectories. 80 Profiler Forward Trajectories 60 7/11/95 2000 CDT -
   7/12/95 0800 CDT 400-800 m )km 800-1200 m 40 ( 1200-1600 m ce 1600-2000
   m tan Dis 20 hout-Sth 0Nor -20 -40 -100 -80 -60 -40 -20 0 20 East-West
   Distance (km) Banta, R.M., C.J. Senff, A.B. White, M. Trainer, R.T.
   McNider, R.J. Valente, S.D. Mayor, R.J. Alvarez II, R.M. Hardesty, D.
   Parrish, and F.C. Fehsenfeld, Daytime buildup and nighttime transport
   of urban ozone in the boundary layer during a stagnation episode,
   Journal of Geophysical Research , 103, 22519 - 22544, 1998. 19 Health
   of the Atmosphere McNider, R.T., W.B. Norris, A.J. Song, R.L. Clymer,
   S. Gupta, R.M. Banta, R.J. Zamora, A.B. White, and M. Trainer,
   Meteorological conditions during the 1995 Southern Oxidants Study
   Nashville/Middle Tennessee field intensive, Journal of Geophysical
   Research, 103, 22225 - 22243, 1998. Better estimates of dry deposited
   nitrogen and sulfur . The NOAA Atmospheric Integrated Research
   Monitoring Network (AIRMoN) provides a research-based foundation for
   routine atmospheric deposition monitoring operations [National
   Atmospheric Deposition Program (NADP) for wet and the Clean Air Status
   and Trends Network (CASTNet) for dry]. Although well-documented
   techniques exist for monitoring wet deposition, dry deposition
   monitoring continues to evolve since there are no exiting methodologies
   that are suitable for routine operation. The Dry Deposition Inferential
   Method (DDIM) has been and continues to be the method of choice for dry
   deposition monitoring, not only for North American networks but also
   for monitoring activities worldwide. With this method, dry deposition
   rates of gas and aerosol phases of sulfur, nitrogen, and ozone are
   derived by coupling measurements of air concentrations with a modeled
   deposition velocity. The deposition velocity depends on the pollutant
   species, as well as on atmospheric and land surface data that are
   indicative of the dry deposition processes. Since implementation of the
   inferential method requires the use of a deposition model, considerable
   effort has been made to evaluate the bias and uncertainty of the model.
   This requires special field studies in which the dry deposition rates
   of key pollutants are measured directly, usually with
   micrometeorological methods. The deposition velocities from these three
   intensive field campaigns, in which the fluxes of SO2, O3 and HNO3 were
   measured directly, recently were compared with estimates from a
   land/surface numerical model, denoted as the multi-layer model. An
   example comparison between modeled and measured deposition velocities
   for a grassland site is shown above. For O3, the overall model bias was
   low and not significantly different from zero. The model generally
   underpredicts the deposition for SO2 and HNO3 by 15% and 20 Selected
   Accomplishments 20%, respectively. Planning for additional studies to
   examine the predictive capability of the model when applied to aerosol
   deposition in marine environments is currently underway. Meyers, T.P.,
   P. Finkelstein, J. Clarke, T.G. Ellestad, and P.F. Sims, A multi-layer
   model for inferring dry deposition using standard meteorological
   measurements, Journal of Geophysical Research, 103, 22645-22661, 1998.
   Ozone in the background troposphere over the U.S. Changes in ozone in
   the troposphere over the U.S. Although the ozone concentration near the
   ground is widely measured across the continental U.S., only a small
   number of sites make regular measurements of the ozone content of the
   troposphere above the boundary layer. Long-range transport of ozone
   from distant sources as well as stratospheric input to the troposphere
   are processes that can only be understood with measurements in the free
   troposphere. At two locations, Wallops Island, Virginia (a site
   operated by NASA) and Boulder, Colorado (operated by NOAA) regular
   ozone profiles have been obtained for 15 or more years. At both of
   these sites there have been only small changes in the ozone content of
   the troposphere. Transport of ozone across the Pacific. In August 1997
   an ozone profiling station was established on the U.S west coast in
   northern California at Trinidad Head. This site was chosen because of
   its exposure to air entering the U.S. with the prevailing westerly
   flow. During April, May, and June there are episodes of rather direct
   flow from eastern Asia. Adequate sunlight for photochemical ozone
   production is also available. Under these conditions enhanced ozone
   levels may be observed entering the U.S. and can contribute to the
   overall tropospheric ozone background levels. An example of such an
   enhanced layer is seen in the profile from April 21, 1999 at Trinidad
   Head. The back trajectory at the level of the ozone peak shows that air
   parcels could have come from the Asian continent approximately 6-7 days
   earlier. Tropospheric ozone in the southeastern U.S. In support of the
   two Nashville SOS field campaigns, near-daily ozone profiles were
   obtained that gave ozone amounts through both the troposphere and
   stratosphere. These profiles showed strong low altitude ozone
   enhancements associated with the pollution buildup of ozone, as well as
   occasional intrusions at higher tropospheric altitudes that appear to
   be associated with transport from the stratosphere. Ozone profiles are
   also being obtained regularly from a recently established site in
   Huntsville, Alabama. Oltmans, S.J., A.S. Lefohn, H-E. Scheel, J.M.
   Harris, H. Levy II, I.E. Galbally, E.-G. Brunke, C.P. Meyer, J.A.
   Lathrop, B.J. Johnson, D.S. Shadwick, E. Cuevas, F.J. Schmidlin, D.W.
   Tarasick, H. Claude, J.B. Kerr, O. Uchino, and V. Mohnen, Trends of
   ozone in the troposphere, Geophysical Research Letters, 25, 139-142,
   1998. 21 Health of the Atmosphere 14 12 10 Trinidad Head California 8
   April 21, 1999 6 4 2 0 0 1 0 2 0 3 0 4 0 5 0 60 7 0 8 0 9 0 1 00 1 10
   12 0 OZONE (ppbv) Ozone profile at Trinidad Head, California on April
   21, 1999, with the isentropic back trajectory ending at 4.3 km over the
   ozonesonde site. The numbers on the trajectory path represent the
   number of days back from the time of the observation. 22 Outreach
   OUTREACH The NOAA Health of the Atmosphere research program reaches out
   to the larger stakeholder community through a series of collaborative
   partnerships. These strategic alliances provide opportunities to
   leverage NOAA's science to a larger community and provide important
   linkages to air pollution effects research and regulation and policy
   development. Current research collaborations include: The Federal
   Sector - through the White House's Committee on Environment and Natural
   Resources (CENR). NOAA currently provides leadership to this committee
   as Co-Chair of the CENR and as Vice Chair of the CENR's Air Quality
   Research Subcommittee (AQRS). The Air Quality Research Subcommittee has
   designated PM and ozone research as the highest priority for the FY
   1999 and FY 2000 budget periods. National and International - through
   leadership in forming NARSTO (formerly called the North American
   Research Strategy for Tropospheric Ozone). This is a tri-national
   (Mexico, United States, and Canada) organization, a public/private
   partnership, whose membership spans government, the utilities, and
   academe. Its primary mission is to coordinate policy-relevant
   scientific research with a goal of determining workable, efficient, and
   effective strategies for local and regional ozone and PM management.
   NOAA is playing a leadership role in the development of an assessment
   of policy- relevant scientific information on ozone. Particulate Matter
   Measurements Workshop - NOAA has played a leadership role in bringing
   together scientists from the atmospheric, exposure, and health effects
   communities to identify the key components and design parameters for a
   comprehensive measurement program to characterize ambient particulate
   matter and important co- pollutants. In July 1998, Dan Albritton of
   NOAA's Aeronomy Laboratory and Dan Greenbaum of the Health Effects
   Institute co-chaired a NARSTO/EPA sponsored workshop to address these
   issues in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. The recommendations of this
   workshop are reported in Atmospheric Observations: Helping Build the
   Scientific Basis for Decisions Related to Airborne Particulate Matter.
   Research Partnerships: NOAA plays a key role in several research
   consortia that are involved in air quality research, including:
   Southern Oxidants Study (SOS) - NOAA was one of the founders of the SOS
   program, which was initiated in 1988 to provide scientific research to
   develop effective ozone reduction strategies for the Southeast and the
   Nation. The program involves federal and state agencies, university
   research groups, and interested parties from the private sector. Active
   participation by federal, state, and local regulators in the SOS
   affords a direct 23 Health of the Atmosphere linkage between the
   scientific and policy communities, ensuring focused research and timely
   implementation of new insights that have been developed. National
   Atmospheric Deposition Program/National Trends Network (NADP/NTN) - The
   NADP/NTN consists of nearly 200 sites measuring precipitation
   chemistry, operated by over 100 organizations, including federal, state
   and local agencies, universities, and industrial groups. NOAA's
   Atmospheric Integrated Research Monitoring Network (AIRMoN) serves as a
   research component of the larger NADP precipitation chemistry network,
   providing higher frequency measurements at a limited number of
   locations. These networks provide early detection of improved air
   quality resulting from sulfur and nitrogen emission reductions that
   were implemented as part of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Clean
   Air Status and Trends Network (CASTNet)  The CASTNet consists of 71
   monitoring stations located in rural areas to assess broad air quality
   trends. NOAA and the EPA are working together to integrate air quality
   data from AIRMoN and CASTNet to provide a more comprehensive picture of
   the Nation's air quality, with a focus on documenting changes
   associated with emission reduction programs initiated under the Clean
   Air Act. Both CASTNet and AIRMoN use methodologies developed and
   validated by NOAA to translate weekly ambient concentrations into dry
   deposition estimates. Extramural Programs: NOAA's Health of the
   Atmosphere program provides support to university and private- sector
   scientists conducting research that is closely linked to the program's
   objectives. The extramural research program extends NOAA's own
   capabilities and provides opportunities for collaboration that enrich
   the science of both NOAA and the performing organizations. A sampling
   of the university research being supported under the Health of the
   Atmosphere program is provided below. University of Virginia, Keene,
   Moody, Cosby, and Galloway  Analyze air quality and deposition data
   from the AIRMoN network to determine the impact of recent emission
   reductions. Pennsylvania State University, Brune  Measure hydroxyl and
   hydroperoxyl radical concentrations (key intermediates in ozone and
   fine particle formation) during the 1999 SOS field campaign in
   Nashville, Tennessee. Purdue University, Shepson  Use measurements
   performed during the 199 SOS field campaign in Nashville, Tennessee to
   evaluate the role of naturally-occurring hydrocarbons. Western Michigan
   University, Bertman  Perform measurements of organic nitrates during
   the SOS field campaign in Nashville, Tennessee to determine ultimate
   fate of NOx emissions. 24 Outreach Ohio University, Young  Characterize
   the contribution of C2-C8 hydrocarbons to local and regional oxidant
   chemistry during the SOS field campaign in Nashville, Tennessee.
   University of Alabama at Huntsville, McNider  Develop and evaluate a
   large eddy simulation (LES) model with coupled chemistry. 25 Health of
   the Atmosphere The laboratory study of chemical and physical processes
   that underlie the transformation of air pollutants from one form to
   another is an integral part of Health of the Atmosphere research.
   Results of these fundamental studies and those from intensive field
   studies and modeling studies are integrated within the program to
   provide new perspectives and understanding of the complex processes
   that control the formation and distribution of ozone and fine
   particles. 26 Future Plans FUTURE PLANS Research Objectives Connections
   between ozone and PM formation: Anthropogenic pollution can be harmful
   to human health, have deleterious effects on crops and forests, and
   degrade visibility. At present, the most serious air quality concerns
   deal with ozone and fine particle pollution. All of the ozone and much
   of the aerosol that are attributed to human pollution are not emitted
   directly into the atmosphere but are produced as byproducts of
   atmospheric chemistry. The aim of the Health of the Atmosphere research
   over the near future is to investigate how the chemical processing and
   removal of compounds of anthropogenic origin can influence the regional
   budgets of ozone and fine particles. The Health of the Atmosphere
   findings described above have made a significant impact on national
   policies developed to control ozone on local and regional scales in the
   United States. Their general applicability to all locales and regions
   in the U.S. requires additional testing and verification. In addition,
   these unexpected conclusions force us to consider other factors that
   may influence the photochemical processing of these compounds. In
   particular, the role of aerosols in tropospheric chemistry needs to be
   addressed. During the next two years, the Health of the Atmosphere
   program will sponsor field measurements of the concentrations of O3,
   fine particles, their precursors, photochemical intermediates and other
   photochemical products, and other atmospheric parameters. Airborne and
   ground-based studies will provide information required to more
   accurately determine the rate and amount of ozone and fine particulate
   matter that are produced in the atmosphere from natural and human-made
   precursors. The expansion of our measurements to investigate aerosol
   and aerosol-related processes is timely. Aerosols participate in a
   variety of chemical and physical processes in the troposphere. On a
   regional scale, these processes are associated with regional air
   quality as related to visibility and the effects of fine particles on
   human health. In this regard, there is a natural synergism between the
   ozone-related research described previously and the study of processes
   leading to or involving fine particles. New federal standards have been
   proposed for both ozone and fine particles. These standards force us to
   recognize that a basic scientific understanding of the chemistry and
   physics of the atmosphere is prerequisite in order to design effective
   control strategies for these pollutants and that the concentrations of
   the pollutants in the atmosphere are often co-dependent because of
   interacting chemical reactions. With this in mind, we propose to expand
   our measurements program to elucidate: * how chemical processing on
   aerosols influences ozone formation * how the atmospheric oxidation
   leading to ozone formation leads to aerosol formation 27 Health of the
   Atmosphere * how atmospheric chemistry influences the growth and
   chemical composition of aerosols. This new paradigm also has been
   embraced by our colleagues in The Southern Oxidant Study and NARSTO.
   This comprehensive research program will investigate the relationship
   between the sources of fine particles and ozone precursors and
   photochemistry that lead to ozone and fine particle formation. It is
   designed to continue and expand past investigations that were
   undertaken as part of NARSTO and the Southern Oxidants Study. The
   measurements we plan are intended to provide a better understanding of
   the basic chemical, meteorological, and transport processes that
   determine ozone and fine particle distributions and to use this
   information to assist policy makers in devising optimal ozone
   management strategies. Nightime Chemistry and Transport: Because of the
   important role that photochemistry plays in the formation of ozone and
   other secondary air pollutants, the vast majority of the intensive
   atmospheric process studies conducted to date have focused on the
   daylight hours. Analysis of data collected during the 1995
   Nashville/Middle Tennessee ozone study revealed that nighttime mixing
   and transport playes a significant role in the redistribution of urban
   pollution throughout the region. During the day, under the stagnant
   conditions associated with most pollution episodes, only limited
   horizontal transport of the pollution plumes is expected. However, at
   sunset a shallow nocturnal inversion layer may form that can isolate
   the boundary layer pollution from the surface, reducing the loss of
   ozone, PM and their precursors via deposition. The formation of this
   layer also reduces the frictional resistance for the air masses above
   the nocturnal layer, allowing this pollution to be more effectively
   transported over larger distances. Moreover, the emissions from
   smokestacks of major point sources, such as power plants, may enter the
   atmosphere at night above the nocturnal inversion directly into the
   nighttime free troposphere. Nitrogen oxide and VOC emissions continue
   to react with ozone at night leading to additional reactions involving
   the nitrate radical. These processes can significantly affect the
   reactivity and concentration of the pollutant mix that populates the
   atmosphere during the next diurnal cycle. For these reasons, it is
   important to better understand the chemistry and transport in the
   nighttime atmosphere. Boundary Layer Dynamics: Currently, the temporal
   and spatial variability of turbulent mixing is the primary challenge to
   our understanding of planetary boundary layer dynamics. The depth of
   mixing depends in complex ways on the time of day, the inhomogeneous
   surface, and the previous state of the atmosphere upwind. We need to
   better understand the processes that govern the mixing depth on small
   (2-5 km) and medium (10-50 km) scales. These processes are largely
   driven by the details of the surface moisture availability and
   vegetation. We also need to understand the afternoon transition from
   the vigorously mixed daytime convective boundary layer to the
   stratified or weakly mixed nighttime residual layer. The transition
   characteristics may depend on 28 Future Plans (aerosol) radiative
   forcing within the boundary layer as well as on forcing from the
   surface. Another challenge is to understand the role of clouds in
   mixing and ventilating the boundary layer. Finally, we need to
   determine whether the highly intermittent and spatially variable
   nighttime stable boundary layer has important effects on regional air
   quality, and if so, how to adequately measure and model this layer. New
   Technologies  Investments in the Future Our ability to understand, and
   therefore predict, atmospheric processes that control the production
   and distribution of air pollutants like ozone and PM is
   measurement-limited. In other words, the advancement of the science is
   impeded by our inability to properly characterize the state of the
   atmosphere in terms of chemical composition and physical
   characteristics. Several examples of technology development efforts
   that target key parameters whose determination can significantly
   advance our understanding are described below. Semi-continuous aerosol
   speciation: Unlike other air pollutants, such as ozone, PM is not a
   single compound but rather a complex mixture whose composition and
   morphology can vary in time and space. Our current knowledge of
   atmospheric PM stems primarily from 24-hr filter samples. Measurements
   that resolve the chemical composition of bulk aerosols and individual
   particles on shorter time scales are required if we are to understand
   the association between ambient PM and adverse impacts to public
   health, visibility, and climate forcing. Semi-continuous aerosol
   speciation will also aid in the proper apportionment of measured PM
   mass among the myriad of possible emission sources. Thus, the
   development, enhancement, and evaluation of techniques to speciate
   ambient aerosols on a semi-continuous basis are a priority. Chemical
   Ionization Mass Spectrometry (CIMS): The Aeronomy Laboratory has
   successfully applied the CIMS technology to the development of a
   high-sensitivity, continuous nitric acid detector. This technology
   shows great promise, with the potential for fast-response (one second
   or less), ultra-sensitive (part-per-trillion) detection of a wide range
   of compounds of atmospheric interest. Plans call for the development of
   CIMS-based measurement technologies for the following compounds and
   classes of compounds: * Ammonia (NH3)  Ammonia plays a key role in the
   formation of fine particles in the atmosphere, the formation of
   regional haze, the neutralization of acid aerosols, and in acid
   deposition. No reliable continuous measurement technology currently
   exists for NH3. Ammonia measurements can provide insight into
   gas-to-particle conversion and the impact that these processes may have
   on air quality, atmospheric visibility, acidic deposition, and human
   health. * Isoprene  Naturally produced isoprene is ubiquitous to the
   temperate regions of the country, where it plays a critical role in
   ozone formation. Measurements of isoprene and its spatial and temporal
   distribution will allow a better estimate of the role of natural
   emissions in ozone formation in rural and urban areas. 29 Health of the
   Atmosphere * Aromatics  Aromatic compounds, found primarily in
   automobile emissions, are extremely reactive in the atmosphere,
   contributing both to ozone formation and the formation of particulate
   matter. Our ability to understand the role of these compounds is
   impacted by a lack of reliable measurements. * Carbonyls  Carbonyl
   compounds are both the products of atmospheric photochemistry and a
   source of free radicals in the atmosphere. Thus, they are important
   indicators of atmospheric reactivity and their quantification can
   provide insight into atmospheric processes leading to ozone and PM
   formation. Aerosol measurement methodologies: Remote optical sensing
   holds great promise for measuring properties of aerosol particles
   related to air quality and visibility. Instruments such as lidars and
   spectral sun photometers can provide continuous information on aerosols
   aloft, whereas in situ measurements by aircraft are restricted to
   relatively short flight periods, one altitude at a time. The greatest
   opportunity lies not so much in improving the instruments, which
   individually are quite mature, but rather in developing new sampling
   and analysis methodologies that use multiple instruments in a
   synergistic manner. Some promising avenues that should be pursued and
   evaluated include: * Simultaneous lidar and sun photometer data to
   characterize column-average size distribution, and major changes of the
   latter with height. * Measurement of the profile of water in the
   aerosols using one or two lidar wavelengths which fortuitously may be
   only weakly sensitive to variation of other parameters of the size
   distribution. * Study of f(RH) throughout the boundary layer *
   Continuous remote profiling of PM2.5. * Use of lidar depolarization
   ratio, which depends on the degree of nonsphericity of the particles,
   to indicate aerosol formation processes. * Development of a lidar
   method to profile ammonia. The lidar could also be used to characterize
   the strength of point or area sources of ammonia. Continuous remote
   profiling of ozone concentration, moisture, and aerosol properties:
   Radar wind profilers provide valuable information on the wind and
   temperature fields in support of air quality research. Technology
   advancements in optical components now make it realistic to develop and
   deploy compact, ground-based remote sensors for continuous profiling of
   ozone, water vapor, and aerosol properties in the lower troposphere.
   The planned instruments will incorporate solid-state laser technology
   for compactness and reliability, and will be designed to operate
   autonomously for extended periods to support both intensive field
   experiments and long-term monitoring efforts. Analogous with wind
   profilers, the proposed systems will be inexpensive and easily
   deployable, so that multiple instruments can conceivably be sited at
   several locations across a regional area of interest. Remote sensors
   for aircraft deployment: The capability to remotely sense boundary
   layer quantities from aircraft such as the NOAA P-3 and Twin Otter
   would greatly enhance field studies associated with regional air
   quality and other Health of the Atmosphere 30 Future Plans issues.
   Lidar remote sensors suitable for aircraft deployment could provide
   important information on the following quantities: * Lower tropospheric
   wind profiles and shear, and the role of inertial oscillations in the
   transport of urban and power plant plumes. * Three-dimensional
   structure of water vapor and aerosols, and the correlation between
   humidity and aerosol scattering. * Growth and height of the mixed
   layer, regional variability of mixed layer height, and the correlation
   between mixed layer height and surface temperature. * Three-dimensional
   variability of ozone across metropolitan areas. * Turbulent mixing,
   entrainment, and cloud venting of aerosols and other pollutants. To
   provide airborne observational capabilities, technologies already
   demonstrated at NOAA for surface observations will be modified and
   extended. Appropriate scanning techniques, including correction of
   airborne wind observations for aircraft motion, will also need to be
   investigated. Ultimately, developing instruments for P-3 deployment
   will further NOAA's missions in areas such as hurricane tracking and
   forecasting and severe weather research, as well as greatly aiding
   future Health of the Atmosphere field investigations. Field Studies
   The "Real" World Intensive regional field studies conducted jointly
   with colleagues from the Southern Oxidants Study will continue to be a
   major focus of Health of the Atmosphere research. These studies provide
   an opportunity to better understand the processes that control the
   formation and distribution of ozone and fine particles and to develop
   and test relevant hypotheses. Experience from previous studies has
   demonstrated the extreme value of three dimensional information
   provided by remote sensing techniques and instrumented aircraft capable
   of making a wide range of in situ chemical and physical measurements.
   Two major field campaigns are planned for the 1999- 2000 timeframe.
   Southeastern U.S.: NOAA led a collaborative effort that involved
   several other federal agencies (DOE, EPA, TVA, NSF and NPS),
   researchers from 10 universities, and industry scientists in a major
   field campaign conducted in the southeastern U.S. during the summer of
   1999. Four instrumented aircraft, including the NOAA WP-3 and a
   commercial aircraft leased by NOAA as a platform for the ozone aerosol
   lidar, and a comprehensive array of ground-based measurements were
   deployed in the region. The study had a regional focus and contrasted
   and compared the impact of two urban centers, Nashville, Tennessee and
   Atlanta, Georgia, on local and regional air quality. This study
   afforded the opportunity to refine our understanding of ozone formation
   and to begin to address the complex process that determine PM formation
   and composition. The evaluation of new technologies for PM
   characterization was a major goal of the field campaign. The NOAA WP-3
   also performed measurements in the Upper Midwest to provide contrasting
   data from regions with different meteorology and emission profiles. 31
   Health of the Atmosphere East Texas: Texas has several challenging air
   quality problems. Four of the major metropolitan areas have been unable
   to comply with the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for
   ozone, with Houston recording some of the highest ozone concentrations
   measured anywhere in the country. Texas also has problems meeting air
   quality standards for particulate matter and regional haze. These
   problems are compounded by the varied nature of the Texas landscape and
   climatology. NOAA will have a leadership role in a study to be
   conducted in East Texas in the summer of 2000. The study will involve
   many of the same SOS colleagues that who have worked together on
   previous studies as well as local scientists from universities, the
   regulatory community, and industry. The emissions and meteorology that
   characterize this part of the country are expected to provide a
   significant departure from the conditions that typified previous
   studies in the Southeast. Data collected during the study will test the
   predictive ability of air quality models under a wide range of
   conditions. The East Texas study will afford the opportunity to
   investigate important new research questions: * Atmospheric Transport -
   Ozone concentrations in Houston are highest when an airmass
   recirculation occurs due to the presence of a land/sea breeze coupling
   with the Gulf of Mexico. Under these conditions, pollution from Houston
   moves toward the Gulf and then returns as the flow changes from a land
   breeze to a sea breeze. A better understanding of this phenomenon will
   lead to more effective management strategies. * Tracer studies -
   Establishing the connection between changes in emissions and the
   ambient concentrations of the compounds contained in those emissions is
   a formidable task. The most straightforward approach is through the use
   of time-series analyses of a long-term record of ambient concentrations
   of compounds to isolate a signal that can be associated with emission
   management strategies. However, this approach presents a variety of
   challenging problems. The time-series record must encompass periods
   significantly before and after initiation of new air-quality management
   approaches. The data set must be composed of highly accurate and
   precise measurements. Even under those circumstances, identification of
   a shift in the time series of the quantity of interest can be obscured
   by other transient factors (e.g., meteorological variations or
   implementation of other emission control programs). Thus, there is a
   need to develop and evaluate techniques for detecting ambient effects
   for a specific control program separately from the effects of
   meteorological variability. For these reasons, it is recommended that
   an alternative approach is recommended to document the effect of
   various emission control programs on ambient ozone and fine particle
   precursor concentrations. This alternate approach would use
   measurements of various tracers in conjunction with measurements of
   VOC, CO, and NOx, etc., to (i) characterize the contributions of
   targeted emissions to the concentrations of ozone- and aerosol
   precursor compounds; (ii) estimate the ozone- and aerosol-forming 32
   Future Plans potential of these compounds through the application of
   various observation-based methods, and (iii) document the change in
   this contribution that can be attributed to the emission control
   program. Tracer species that will be useful in this regard include
   those that can be used to identify light duty vehicle (LDV) emissions
   (e.g., acetylene for LDV exhaust), as well as those that can serve as a
   fingerprint of emissions from LDVs using reformulated gasoline (e.g.,
   MTBE). Ideally, these measurements would be made in a variety of
   locations within and surrounding each severe nonattainment area in
   order to document effects occurring on regional as well as local and
   urban scales. * Aerosol Formation and Composition  The presence of
   extensive petrochemical processing facilities, and the interaction of
   urban pollution with marine aerosols, is expected to result in an
   aerosol mix in East Texas unlike anything observed in previous SOS
   studies. The characterization of these aerosols in terms of their
   composition and an understanding of the atmospheric processes
   responsible for their formation and distribution will aid in
   quantifying public exposure and the development of mitigation
   strategies. 33 Health of the Atmosphere The NOAA ozone/aerosol lidar
   was carried aboard a deHavilland Caribou aircraft (top), during the
   1999 SOS Nashville field campaign. This aircraft is specially
   configured for remote sensing studies with a crew of two or three
   scientists to operate the lidar, evaluate the measurements, and direct
   the mission (bottom). The airborne lidar provided three dimensional
   measurements of ozone and fine particle concentrations over the
   Nashville area (see pages 16-18), enabling researchers to track the
   evolution and transport of these pollutants throughout the region. 34
   Appendix A APPENDIX A HEALTH OF THE ATMOSPHERE PUBLICATIONS 1999
   Golden, P.D., D.D. Parrish, W. Kuster, M. Trainer, S. McKeen, J.
   Holloway, T. Jobson, D. Sueper, and F.C. Fehsenfeld, Airborne
   measurements of isoprene, CO, and anthropogenic hydrocarbons and their
   precursors, Journal of Geophysical Research , in press, 1999. Luria,
   M., R.J. Valente, R.L. Tanner, N.V. Gillani, R.E. Imhoff, S.F. Mueller,
   K.J. Olszyna, and J.F. Meagher, The evolution of photochemical smog in
   a power plant plume, Atmospheric Environment, 31, 3023-3036, 1999.
   Parkhurst, W.J., R.L. Tanner, F.P. Weatherford, R.J. Valente, and J.F.
   Meagher, Historic PM2.5/PM10 concentrations in the Southeastern U.S.
   potential implications of the revised particulate matter standard,
   Journal of the Air and Waste Management Association, 49, 1060-1067,
   1999. Parrish, D.D., and F.C. Fehsenfeld, Methods for gas-phase
   measurements of ozone, ozone precursors and aerosol precursors,
   Atmospheric Environment, in press, 1999. Senff, C.J., R.M. Hardesty,
   R.J. Alvarez II, and S.D. Mayor, Airborne lidar characterization of
   power plant plumes during the 1995 Southern Oxidants Study, Journal of
   Geophysical Research , in press, 1999. Trainer, M., D.D. Parrish, P.D.
   Goldan, J. Roberts, and F.C. Fehsenfeld; Regional factors influencing
   ozone concentrations, Atmospheric Environment, in press, 1999. White,
   A.B., C. Senff, and R.M. Banta, A comparison of mixing depths observed
   by ground-based wind profilers and an airborne lidar. Journal of
   Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology, 16, 584-590, 1999. 1998 Alvarez II,
   R.J., S.D. Mayor, C. Senff, R.M. Hardesty, C.L. Frush, R.M. Banta, and
   W. L. Eberhard, 1996: UV-DIAL ozone measurements during the 1995
   Southern Oxidants Study, Advances in Atmospheric Remote Sensing with
   Lidar, eds. A. Ansmann, R. Neuber, P. Rairoux, and U. Wandinger,
   Springer, Berlin, 351-354, 1998 Alvarez II, R.J., C.J. Senff, R.M.
   Hardesty, D.D. Parrish, W.T. Luke, T.B. Watson, P.H. Daum, and N.
   Gillani, Validation of airborne lidar measurements of ozone with
   airborne 33 Health of the Atmosphere in situ measurements during the
   1995 Southern Oxidants Study, Journal of Geophysical Research, 103,
   13689-13701, 1998. Angevine, W.M., A.W. Grimsdell, L.M. Hartten, and
   A.C. Delany, The Flatland Boundary Layer Experiments, Bulletin of the
   American Meteorological Society, 79, 419- 431, 1998. Angevine, W.M.,
   A.W. Grimsdell, S.A. McKeen, and J.M. Warnock, Entrainment results from
   the Flatland boundary layer experiments. Journal of Geophysical
   Research , 103, 1368913701, 1998. Banta, R.M., C.J. Senff, A.B. White,
   M. Trainer, R.T. McNider, R.J. Valente, S.D. Mayor, R.J. Alvarez II,
   R.M. Hardesty, D.D. Parrish, and F.C. Fehsenfeld, Daytime buildup and
   nighttime transport of urban ozone in the boundary layer during a
   stagnation episode. Journal of Geophysical Research , 103, 22519-22544,
   1998. Butler, T.J., and G.E. Likens, Weekly and daily precipitation
   chemistry network comparisons in the eastern U.S.: NADP/NTN vs.
   MAP3S/AIRMoN, Atmospheric Environment, 32, 3749-3765, 1998. Cowling,
   E.B., W.L. Chameides, C.S. Kiang, F.C. Fehsenfeld, and J.F. Meagher,
   Introduction to special section: Southern Oxidants Study
   Nashville/Middle Tennessee Ozone Study, Journal of Geophysical
   Research, 103, 22209-22212, 1998. Frost, G.J., M.K. Trainer, G.
   Allwine, M.P. Buhr, J.G. Calvert, C.A. Cantrell, F.C. Fehsenfeld, P.D.
   Goldan, J. Herwehe, G. Hübler, W.C. Kuster, R. Martin, R.T. McMillen,
   S.A. Montzka, R.B. Norton, D.D. Parrish, B.A. Ridley, R.E. Shetter,
   J.G. Walega, B.A. Watkins, H.H. Westberg, and E.J. Williams,
   Photochemical ozone production in the rural southeastern United States
   during the 1990 ROSE Program, Journal of Geophysical Research, 103,
   22491-22508, 1998. Fehsenfeld, F.C., L.G. Huey, D.T. Sueper, R.B.
   Norton, E.J. Williams, F.L. Eisele, R.L. Mauldin III, and D.J. Tanner,
   Ground-based intercomparison of nitric acid measurement techniques,
   Journal of Geophysical Research , 103, 3343-3353, 1998. Grimsdell,
   A.W., and W.M. Angevine, Convective boundary layer height measured with
   wind profilers and compared to cloud base, Journal of Atmospheric and
   Oceanic Technology, 15, 1332-1339, 1998. H!bler, G., R. Alvarez II, P.
   Daum, R. Dennis, N. Gillani, L. Kleinman, W. Luke, J. Meagher, D.
   Rider, M. Trainer, and R. Valente, An overview of the airborne
   activities during the SOS 1995 Nashville/Middle Tennessee ozone study,
   Journal of Geophysical Research, 103, 22245-22260, 1998. 34 Appendix A
   Huey, L.G., E.L. Dunlea, E.R. Lovejoy, D.R. Hanson, R.B. Norton, F.C.
   Fehsenfeld, and C.J. Howard, Fast time response measurements of HNO3 in
   air with a chemical ionization mass spectrometer, Journal of
   Geophysical Research, 103, 3355-3360, 1998. Jobson, B.T., D.D. Parrish,
   P. Goldan, W. Kuster, F.C. Fehsenfeld, D.R. Blake, N.J. Blake, and H.
   Niki, Spatial and temporal variability of nonmethane hydrocarbon mixing
   ratios and their relation to photochemical lifetime, Journal of
   Geophysical Research , 103, 13557-13567, 1998. Jobson, B.T., G.J.
   Frost, D.D. Parrish, S.A. McKeen, T.B. Ryerson, M.P. Buhr, M. Trainer,
   and F.C. Fehsenfeld, Hydrogen peroxide dry deposition lifetime
   determined from observed loss rates in a power plant plume, Journal of
   Geophysical Research, 103, 22617-22628, 1998. Lee, Y.-N., X. Zhou, L.I.
   Kleinman, L.J. Nunnermacker, S.R. Springston, P.H. Daum, L. Newman,
   W.G. Keigley, M.W. Holdren, C.W. Spicer, V. Young, B. Fu, D.D. Parrish,
   J. Holloway, J. Williams, J.M. Roberts, T.B. Ryerson, and F.C.
   Fehsenfeld, Atmospheric chemistry and distribution of formaldehyde and
   several multioxygenated carbonyl compounds during the 1995
   Nashville/Middle Tennessee Ozone Study, Journal of Geophysical
   Research, 103, 22,449-22462, 1998. Luke, W.T., T.B. Watson, K.J.
   Olszyna, R.L. Gunter, and S.W. Wilkison, A comparison of airborne and
   surface trace gas measurements during the Southern Oxidants Study
   (SOS), Journal of Geophysical Research, 103, 22,317-22,338, 1998.
   McNider, R.T., W.B. Norris, A.J. Song, R.L. Clymer, S. Gupta, R.M.
   Banta, R.J. Zamora, A.B. White, and M. Trainer, Meteorological
   conditions during the 1995 SOS Nashville/Middle Tennessee field
   intensive. Journal of Geophysical Research, 103, 22225-22244, 1998.
   Meagher, J.F., E.B. Cowling, F.C. Fehsenfeld, and W.J. Parkhurst, Ozone
   formation and transport in the Southeastern United States: An Overview
   of the SOS Nashville/Middle Tennessee ozone study. Journal of
   Geophysical Research , 103, 22213-22224, 1998. Meyers, T.P., P.
   Finkelstein, J. Clarke, T.G. Ellestad, and P.F. Sims, A multi-layer
   model for inferring dry deposition using standard meteorological
   measurements, Journal of Geophysical Research, 103, 22645-22661, 1998.
   Nunnermacker, L.J., D. Imre, P.H. Daum, L. Kleinman, Y.-N. Lee, J.H.
   Lee, S.R. Springston, L. Newman, J. Weinstein-Lloyd, W.T. Luke, R.M.
   Banta, R. Alvarez, C. Senff, S. Sillman, M. Holdren, G.W. Keigley, and
   X. Zhou Characterization of the Nashville urban plume on July 3, and
   July 18, 1995. Journal of Geophysical Research , 103, 28129,28148,
   1998. Oltmans, S.J., A.S. Lefohn, H.E. Scheel, J.M. Harris, H. Levy II,
   I.E. Galbally, E.-G. Brunke, C.P. Meyer, J.A. Lathrop, B.J. Johnson,
   D.S. Shadwick, E. Cuevas, F.J. 33 Health of the Atmosphere Schmidlin,
   D.W., Tarasick, H., Claude, J.B. Kerr, O. Uchino, and V. Mohnen, Trends
   of ozone in the troposphere, Geophyical Research Letters, 25, 139-142,
   1998. Parrish, D.D., M. Trainer, V. Young, P.D. Goldan, W.C. Kuster,
   B.T. Jobson, F.C. Fehsenfeld, W.A. Lonneman, R.D. Zika, C.T. Farmer,
   D.D. Reimer, and M.O. Rodgers, Internal consistency tests for
   evaluation of measurements of anthropogenic hydrocarbons in the
   troposphere, Journal of Geophysical Research, 103, 22339-22360, 1998.
   Roberts, J.M., J. Williams, K. Baumann, M.P. Buhr, P. D. Goldan, J.
   Holloway, G. H!bler, W. C. Kuster, S. A. McKeen, T. B. Ryerson, M.
   Trainer, E. J. Williams, and F. C. Fehsenfeld, Measurements of PAN, PPN
   and MPAN made during the 1994 and 1995 Nashville intensives of the
   Southern Oxidants Study: Implications for regional ozone production
   from biogenic hydrocarbons. Journal of Geophysical Research, 103,
   22473- 22490, 1998. Ryerson, T.B., M.P. Buhr, G. Frost, P.D. Goldan,
   J.S. Holloway, G. Hübler, B.T. Jobson, W.C. Kuster, S.A. McKeen, D.D.
   Parrish, J.M. Roberts, D.T. Sueper, M. Trainer, J. Williams, and F.C.
   Fehsenfeld, Emissions lifetimes and ozone formation in power plant
   plumes, Journal of Geophysical Research, 103, 22569-22584, 1998, Senff,
   C.J., R.M. Hardesty, R.J. Alvarez II, and S.D. Mayor, 1998: Airborne
   lidar characterization of power plant plumes during the 1995 Southern
   Oxidants Study. Journal of Geophysical Research , 103, 31173-31189,
   1998. Valente, R.J., R.E. Imhoff, R.L. Tanner, J.F. Meagher, P.H. Daum,
   R.M. Hardesty, R.M. Banta, R.J. Alvarez, R.T. McNider, and N.V.
   Gillani, Ozone production during an urban air stagnation episode over
   Nashville, Tennessee, Journal of Geophysical Research, 103,
   22555-22568, 1998. Williams, E.J., K. Baumann, J.M. Roberts, S.B.
   Bertman, R.B. Norton, F.C. Fehsenfeld, S.R. Springston, L.J.
   Nunnermacker, L. Newman, K. Olszyna, J. Meagher, B. Hartsell, E.
   Edgerton, J.R. Pearson, and M.O. Rodgers, Intercomparison of
   ground-based NOy measurement techniques, Journal of Geophysical
   Research, 103, 22,261-22,280, 1998. 1997 Baumann, K., E.J. Williams,
   J.A. Olson, J.W. Harder, and F.C. Fehsenfeld, Meteorological
   characteristics and spatial extent of upslope events during the 1993
   Tropospheric OH Photochemistry Experiment, Journal of Geophysical
   Research , 102, 6199-6213, 1997. Goldan, P.D., W.C. Kuster, and F.C.
   Fehsenfeld, Nonmethane hydrocarbon measurements during the Tropospheric
   OH Photochemistry Experiment, Journal of Geophysical Research, 102,
   6315-6324, 1997. 34 Appendix A McKeen, S.A., G. Mount, F. Eisele, E.
   Williams, J. Harder, P. Goldan, W. Kuster, S.C. Liu, K. Baumann, D.
   Tanner, A. Fried, S. Sewell, C. Cantrell, and R. Shetter, Photochemical
   modeling of hydroxyl and its relationship to other species during the
   Tropospheric OH Photochemistry Experiment, Journal of Geophysical
   Research , 102, 6467-6493, 1997. Talukdar, R.K., S.C. Herndon, J.B.
   Burkholder, J.M. Roberts, and A.R. Ravishankara, Atmospheric fate of
   several alkyl nitrates: Part 1. Rate coefficients of the reactions of
   alkyl nitrates with isotopically labeled hydroxyl radicals, Journal of
   the Chemical Society, Faraday Transactions, 93, 2787-2796, 1997.
   Williams, E.J., J.M. Roberts, K. Baumann, S.B. Bertman, S. Buhr, R.B.
   Norton, and F.C. Fehsenfeld, Variations in NOy composition at Idaho
   Hill, Colorado, Journal of Geophysical Research, 102, 6297-6314, 1997.
   Williams, J., J.M. Roberts, F.C. Fehsenfeld, S.B. Bertman, M.P. Buhr,
   P.D. Goldan, G. Hübler, W.C. Kuster, T.B. Ryerson, M. Trainer, and V.
   Young, Regional ozone from biogenic hydrocarbons deduced from airborne
   measurements of PAN, PPN, and MPAN, Geophysical Research Letters, 24,
   1099-1102, 1997. 1996 Angevine, W.M., M.P. Buhr, J.S. Holloway, M.K.
   Trainer, D.D. Parrish, J.I.
