http://newsdesk.inel.gov/contextnews.cfm?ID=279

   [ineelHeaderLogo.jpg]   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental
                           Laboratory
                           INEEL Home (http://www.inel.gov)
                           INEEL Newsdesk Home (http://newsdesk.inel.gov)
                           Back

   DOE News Release
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   January 23, 2002

   NEWS MEDIA CONTACTS:
   Steve Zollinger, 208-526-9590, gaz@inel.gov

   5,000 Idaho students research the 'Frozen World'

   More than 5,000 Idaho middle and junior high school students will
   gather at five locations across Idaho in late January and early
   February to participate via satellite in a scientific journey to Alaska
   titled JASON XIII: Frozen Worlds.
   The expedition, which takes place from Jan. 28-Feb. 8, brings students
   together for a hands-on scientific experience to learn about the
   mysteries of the frozen world.
   The Idaho JASON Project, sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy's
   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL) and the
   Office of Naval Research, attracted 10,000 Idaho students during a
   yearlong science program designed to bring the thrill of discovery into
   the classroom.
   The 5,000 Idaho students who have chosen to attend the broadcast will
   join with millions more from around the world by following the
   expedition via online reports and a live satellite link to five Idaho
   colleges and universities.  Students will watch the satellite broadcast
   at Boise State University in Boise, Idaho State University in
   Pocatello, Northwest Nazarene University in Nampa, the College of
   Southern Idaho in Twin Falls and North Idaho College in Coeur d'Alene.

   Corene Boggs, a ninth-grade student at Eagle Rock Junior High School in
   Idaho Falls, was chosen from thousands of applicants worldwide as one
   of the 24 "Student Argonauts" to travel to Alaska and participate in
   the JASON XIII expedition.
   Boggs was selected for her outstanding leadership skills, passion for
   learning and genuine interest in the JASON Project.
   Led by explorer and scientist Robert Ballard, best known for his
   discovery of the R.M.S. Titanic, the expedition team members will take
   students on a virtual journey to some of the coldest regions of the
   planet and solar system.
   The JASON Project is an education program that gives students and
   teachers the opportunity to explore exotic locations around the world
   and features scientists, the Internet, supplemental videos,
   professional development for teachers and live interactive broadcasts.
   Schools participating in Idaho and around the world will use this
   10-day expedition as the framework for hands-on, standards-based
   learning throughout the year.  Endorsed by the National Science
   Teachers Association, the JASON Project curriculum is correlated with
   Idaho standards for science, and with national model standards for
   math, technology, geography and language arts.
   At a special ceremony in October, JASON Project founder Bob Ballard
   presented the JASON Project curriculum to Idaho Gov. Dirk Kempthorne on
   behalf of the educators of Idaho.  Also attending were State
   Superintendent of Public Instruction Marilyn Howard, U.S. Marine Brig.
   Gen. William Cato and Idaho Science and Technology Advisor and INEEL
   President Bill Shipp.
   --INEEL-
   02-007
   Note to editors: Listed below is the days and locations of the JASON
   Project broadcasts.  For exact broadcast times and locations, contact
   Jeff Benson, 526-3841 or cell 520-6661.
   Northwest Nazarene, Jan. 30, 31 and Feb. 1-5
   Idaho State University, Jan. 30-Feb. 1 and Feb. 6-8
   * The media are invited to attend a broadcast of the JASON Project on
   Friday, Feb. 1, from 11 to 12 noon at the ISU College of Education
   auditorium.
   North Idaho College, Feb. 4-7
   Boise State University, Feb. 5-7
   College of Southern Idaho, Feb. 6-8

   [ineelHeaderLogo.jpg]   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental
                           Laboratory
                           INEEL Home (http://www.inel.gov)
                           INEEL Newsdesk Home (http://newsdesk.inel.gov)
                           Back
