http://www.doi.gov/news/jarrett.html

                              [news_header.jpg]

                       U.S. Department of the Interior


       OSM NEWS

       U. S. Department of the Interior                  Office of Surface
   Mining





   For Immediate Release:  January 28, 2002       Contact:

   Jerry Childress (202) 208-7941

                                                                      Mike
   Gauldin (202) 208-2566


         Jeffrey Jarrett Confirmed As Interior's Surface Mining Director


   (WASHINGTON)--Jeffrey D. Jarrett of Pennsylvania was confirmed by
   unanimous vote of the U.S. Senate on Friday, January 25, 2002, as the
   14th Director of the Interior Department's Office of Surface Mining
   Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM).  President Bush announced his choice
   of Jarrett to head OSM in July 2001.


   Jarrett served as a Deputy Assistant Director for OSM=s Regional Office
   in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania from 1988 to 1994 and most recently as
   Deputy Secretary for Mineral Resources Management of the Pennsylvania
   Department of Environmental Protection (DEP).


   "Jeff Jarrett is a top notch public servant with vast experience in
   state and federal government," Norton said.  AHis background,
   experience, and blend of management and resource expertise, makes him
   the ideal person for this job.@


   As Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and
   Enforcement,

   Jarrett has policy and executive responsibility for developing and
   enforcing surface coal mining regulations under the Surface Mining
   Control and Reclamation Act. The agency operates with an annual budget
   of $306.5 million and a work force of 636 employees nationwide.


   "I am greatly honored by the confidence that President Bush and
   Secretary Norton have shown in me, and by the support of the Senate,"
   Jarrett said.  "I intend to earn that confidence by providing strong,
   consistent leadership for the Office of Surface Mining."


             As Deputy Secretary for the Pennsylvania DEP, Jarrett was
   responsible for regulatory programs for surface and underground coal
   and industrial minerals mining,



          -More-







   oil and gas exploration, deep mine safety, and abandoned mine lands
   reclamation. Previously he served as Director of the DEP's Bureau of
   District Mining Operations. In that position he was responsible for the
   effective implementation of various environmental laws as they relate
   to the surface and underground coal and non-coal mining industries in
   Pennsylvania and for miner health and safety regulations at all surface
   mining operations.



   On the federal level, Jarrett brings to the job of director his
   extensive previous

   experience with OSM. He served as an OSM Deputy Assistant Director
   responsible for

   overseeing the effective implementation of the Surface Mining Control
   and Reclamation

   Act of 1977 in the eastern states, the management of a number of state
   and area

   offices, administration of federal grants to the states for the
   operation of Abandoned

   Mine Land, oversight and management of regulatory programs, and
   technical

   assistance to the states.


   Jarrett previously served as director of planning, division manager,
   and reclamation director for the Cravat Coal Company and as reclamation
   supervisor for The Drummond Company.


   A native of West Virginia, Jarrett received a B.S. degree in Human
   Resource Management from Geneva College in Pennsylvania and an A.A.S.
   degree in Land Stabilization and Reclamation from Belmont Technical
   College in St. Clairsville, Ohio.


         -DOI-








           You can get to the Department of the Interior from here

                You can also view the index of press releases

            U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC, USA
