http://www.safecities.gov/topics.cfm?ID=62

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Meet the
   SafeCities Network

   Find Your State

   Home
   SafeCities Logo

Hot Topics

   work together


   HATE CRIMES


   Dept. of Justice Community Relations Service

   This arm of the U.S. Department of Justice, is a specialized Federal
   conciliation service available to State and local officials to help
   resolve and prevent racial and ethnic conflict, violence and civil
   disorders. When governors, mayors, police chiefs, and school
   superintendents need help to defuse racial crises, they turn to CRS.
   CRS helps local officials and residents tailor locally defined
   resolutions when conflict and violence threaten community stability and
   well-being.

   Hate Crimes Research & Statistics

   Research and statistics from the Office of Justice Programs (OJP) at
   the U.S. Department of Justice relevant to preventing, identifying,
   prosecuting, and fighting hate crime.

   Legislation Regarding Hate Crimes

   Hate Crimes Sentencing Enhancement Act: (Section 280003 of the Violent
   Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994) As a part of the 1994
   Crime Act, the Hate Crimes Sentencing Enhancement Act provides for
   longer sentences where the offense is determined to be a hate crime.
   Hate Crime Statistics Act of 1990: (28 U.S.C. 534) This act requires
   the Department of Justice to collect data on hate crimes.

   Pilot Programs to Prevent or Address Hate Crimes

   This is a collection of field tested, model and pilot programs from the
   Office of Justice Programs (OJP) of the U.S. Department of Justice
   (DOJ) relevant to preventing, identifying, prosecuting, and fighting
   hate crime.

   Publications on Hate Crimes

   This page has a wealth of publications and resources collected by the
   Department of Justice Community Relations Service.

   Report Civil Rights Violations in Wake of September 11 Tragedies

   U.S. Commission on Civil Rights hotline to report civil rights
   violations related to the September 11 tragedy call1-866-76-USCCR /
   768-7227.

   Responding to Hate Crime: A Multidisciplinary Curriculum for Law
   Enforcement

   This curriculum differs from others in that it is intended for a
   multidisciplinary training audience, including law enforcement
   officers, victim advocates, and community-based organizations.
   Professionals in the fields of both law enforcement and victim
   assistance feel a growing desire to better respond to victims of bias
   crime and to work together more effectively.

   Responding to Hate Crimes: A Police Officer's Guide to Investigation
   and Prevention

   This document was created by the International Association of Chiefs of
   Police through a grant by the U.S. Department of Justice Office of
   Justice Programs. It is an executive summary regarding hate crime
   definitions, investigation, and prevention.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
