http://www.conservation.ca.gov/news/2001_News_Releases/2001-75%20Orange%20County%20SHZM.htm

   d_slogom.gif (3440 bytes)

   News & Info Programs & Services Search Kids Only DOC Home
   Beverage Container Recycling Link Earthquakes & Landslides Link
   Farmland & Open Space Resources Link Minerals & Mining Link Oil,Gas, &
   Geothermal Resources Link
   facts4a.gif (12477 bytes)
   For Immediate Release
   NR# 2001-75
   December 27, 2001    Contact: Carol Dahmen
                        Mark Oldfield
                        Don Drysdale
                        Ed Wilson
                        (916) 323-1886

           TWO ORANGE COUNTY SEISMIC HAZARD ZONE MAPS NOW OFFICIAL

           New Maps from the California Department of Conservation
        Show Most Likely Areas for Liquefaction, Landslides During an
                                 Earthquake

   SACRAMENTO -- Portions of several Orange County communities are on
   ground susceptible to landslides or have a potential for liquefaction
   during a strong earthquake, according to official Seismic Hazard Zone
   maps released today by the California Department of Conservation.

   The communities affected are Alison Viejo, Irvine, Rancho Santa
   Margarita, San Juan Capistrano, San Clemente, Dana Point, Laguna Hills,
   Laguna Beach, Laguna Niguel and Mission Viejo.

   During an earthquake magnitude 6.0 or greater, strong shaking causes
   most of the damage. However, Seismic Hazard Zone maps, produced by
   DOC's Division of Mines and Geology, show areas at risk from ground
   failure due to landsliding or liquefaction triggered by shaking. The
   dangerous effects of these secondary hazards exist when there are poor
   soil or rock conditions present in the subsurface.

   Liquefaction was a major cause of damage in the Kings Harbor area of
   Redondo Beach during the Northridge earthquake of 1994. The Northridge
   earthquake also caused more than 11,000 landslides, some of which
   damage structures or blocked roads.

   "Knowing where liquefaction and landslides are most likely to occur
   means that local officials can require special engineering steps on new
   construction to make people and buildings safer," Department of
   Conservation Director Darryl Young said.

   City planning and building officials use the maps to identify areas
   that require site-specific geologic or soil investigations before new
   development is permitted. Design changes on new development and large
   remodeling or restoration jobs can lessen the impact of seismic hazards
   and better protect life and property in future earthquakes. Generally,
   it is more cost effective to build improvements into new structures
   than to retrofit existing ones.

   With the official release of the maps, new building permits issued
   inside the zones will require a geologic study to determine whether the
   hazard exists on a particular site. If a hazard is found, measures to
   lessen the impact must be proposed. All property sold in California
   requires that a natural hazards disclosure be provided to the buyer
   prior to sale. Property inside a designated Seismic Hazard Zone will be
   part of that disclosure, as is the case for property in designated
   flood or wildfire zones.

   The Dana Point and San Juan Capistrano quadrangle maps each encompass
   60-square mile areas. The Dana Point map extends from Three Arch Bay in
   Laguna Beach southeast to the City Beach in San Clemente. The San Juan
   Capistrano map covers an area from north Laguna Hills south to the
   Ortega Highway at Highway 5 in San Juan Capistrano and from Laguna
   Beach east to San Juan Creek in eastern San Juan Capistrano and O'Neill
   Regional Park in Mission Viejo. A description of each map follows:

   ¨ Dana Point: The zones of required investigations for landslides occur
   over broad areas of the hills east of the San Diego Freeway in San Juan
   Capistrano and San Clemente, and scattered areas west of the freeway to
   the beach area in Dana Point and Laguna Beach. Liquefaction Hazard
   Zones occur along all beach areas in San Clemente, Dana Point, and
   Laguna Beach. A broad zone occurs along San Juan Creek east of the San
   Diego Freeway from the beach to Highway 74, and in the valley along
   Prima Deshecha Cañada Creek from the beach area to the San Juan
   Capistrano city boundary in San Clemente. A small zone occurs in Laguna
   Niguel at the El Niguel Golf Course.

   ¨ San Juan Capistrano: The zones of required investigation for
   landslides occur in widely scattered areas in the hills of northern San
   Juan Capistrano, Laguna and Mission Viejo, in and around O'Neill
   Regional Park. Landslide zones are more widespread along the eastern
   and western border areas of the map where there are natural,
   undeveloped hill slopes. Liquefaction zones occur in the major
   drainages along the Interstate 5 corridor from Ortega Highway in San
   Juan Capistrano north to La Paz Road in Mission Viejo, and from I-5 at
   Rancho Viejo within Trabuco Canyon through O'Neill Regional Park in Las
   Flores. Zones also occur from the Coast Highway in Laguna Beach along
   Aliso Creek northwesterly all the way through Laguna Hills along Alicia
   Parkway.

   Department of Conservation geologists use computer models as well as
   analyses of existing geological mapping and numerous engineering
   borings to produce the maps, which are drawn on a scale where one inch
   equals 2,000 feet.

   The Department of Conservation has mapped more than 3,000 square miles
   in California, including most of Los Angeles, Ventura and Orange
   counties, and has provided this hazard information to more than 135
   cities for their use in planning and issuing construction permitting.

   A preliminary map of the San Clemente quadrangle, which covers the
   remaining portions of San Clemente and San Juan Capistrano, and the
   Santa Paula quadrangle in Ventura County were also released today for
   90 days of technical review. Mapping in Southern California is ongoing
   in Ventura County and is planned for the Lancaster and Palmdale areas
   of Los Angeles County.

   Color maps can be purchased through DOC's Division of Mines and Geology
   at (415) 904-7707 or (916) 445-5716. The maps also can be found on
   DOC's web site (www.conservation.ca.gov/dmg/shezp) in PDF format.

   In addition to its program to identify and map seismic hazards, the
   Department of Conservation manages California's earth resources through
   its programs that safeguard farmland and open space; oversee oil, gas
   and geothermal wells; ensure mined land reclamation; study earthquakes;
   and promote beverage container recycling.

                                     ###
