http://www.okwd.uscourts.gov/faq.htm

   [USEMAP:xbanner.gif]


   [faqban.gif]

   SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE CLERK’S OFFICE

   JURY ADMINISTRATION

   BAR ADMISSION

   FINANCE

   EMPLOYMENT

   CJA (CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT)

   COURT OF APPEALS

   FILING DOCUMENTS
     __________________________________________________________________

   SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE CLERK’S OFFICE


     What can I do if I have to file a document after 4:30 p.m.?

   A night drop box is located in the lobby of the Courthouse just outside
   of the Clerk’s Office on the 1^st floor. The building is open until
   6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. You must arrive before 6:00 p.m. to
   access the drop box. The documents are picked up by our staff each day
   and file-stamped the day that they are placed in the box.

     How do I view a file and order copies (simple or certified) of it?

   Our file room and intake counter are open from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.,
   Monday through Friday.  You may request to view a file and/or order
   copies (simple or certified). If you desire copies after 3:30 p.m., you
   may order the copies and the intake clerk will notify you by telephone
   when the order is complete. Copies cannot be made after 3:30 p.m. Copy
   requests can be made in person or in writing but not by telephone. You
   will need to know the case number and the document(s) to be copied.
   Written requests require payment in advance. The cost is $.50 per page.
   The cost of certification is $7.00 per instrument.

     How do I obtain a file from Archives?

   Court files are stored in the Clerk’s Office for approximately four
   years. Inactive cases older than approximately fours years are archived
   at the Federal Records Center in Ft. Worth, Texas. Files may be
   retrieved through the Clerk’s Office for a fee of $25.  Retrieval takes
   5 to 10 working days. Archival requests can be made in person or in
   writing but not by telephone. Copies of documents from the file may be
   obtained for a fee of $.50 per page.

     Do I necessarily have to file my documents at the intake counter of
     the Clerk’s office?

   No. You may use the drop box between the hours of 4:30 p.m. and 6:00
   p.m., Monday through Friday located in the lobby of the courthouse just
   outside of the Clerk’s office on the 1^st floor. The building is open
   until 6:00 p.m. You must arrive before 6:00 p.m. to access the drop
   box. The documents are picked up by our staff each day and file-stamped
   the day that they are place in the drop box.

     What is the procedure for ordering a transcript of court
     proceedings?

   To order a transcript of a court proceeding that was recorded by a
   court reporter, you must contact that specific court reporter. If
   ordering for purposes of filing an appeal, complete and file a
   transcript order form (Form A-8), available at the intake counter, with
   the case docket number, dates of proceeding for which transcript is
   requested and court reporter’s name. If the case will be paid with CJA
   (Criminal Justice Act) funds, you must complete and attach CJA Form 24,
   available at the intake counter.

   The Judicial Conference of the United States has determined that in
   multi-defendant case proceedings under the CJA, only one transcript
   should be purchased from the court reporter by one of the appointed
   attorneys on behalf of all CJA defendants. Then, one of the attorneys
   should arrange for the duplication at commercially competitive rates.
   Ten cents ($.10) per page is the maximum copy rate. For more
   information concerning commercial duplication of CJA transcripts, you
   may contact the duty attorney, Administrative Office (AO) Defender
   Services Division at (202) 502-3030.

     What is "FASTFAX" and how do I sign up?

   FASTFAX allows for the prompt distribution of orders and judgments via
   facsimile transmission to the designated attorneys of record who
   complete an authorization form. In most instances, attorneys who agree
   to accept orders and judgments by facsimile transmission will receive
   them the same day they are signed. The Clerk’s Office maintains a
   report confirming receipt by parties of the electronic notice. If the
   Clerk is unable to confirm receipt of the electronic notice, notice by
   mail will be effected the following business day. FASTFAX is available
   for civil and criminal cases. To take advantage of this program, simply
   complete the authorization form and return it to the Clerk’s Office.
   Processing takes approximately 2 weeks. There is no charge for this
   service.

     How do I obtain a Certificate of Good Standing?

   Certificates of good standing for members of the bar of this Court are
   available from the Court Clerk’s Office for a fee of $15.00. Please
   contact the Attorney Admissions Clerk at (405) 609-5062.

     How are cases assigned to Judges?

   All civil and criminal actions are assigned by a random selection
   process in order to ensure that the identity of the judge is not
   disclosed before the case is officially filed.


   JURY ADMINISTRATION


     How did I get selected as a juror?

   The selection process for Grand and Petit jurors is governed by General
   Order 00-3.

     Can I "apply" to be a juror?

   No. Pursuant to the laws and procedures of the U.S. Courts, each court
   must have in place a standard procedure in electing jurors at random.
   This Court uses official voters’ lists from which names are drawn at
   random. It is against the law to allow "volunteer jurors" as it would
   interfere with the random selection procedures.

     When I end my jury duty service, can I be requested to serve in the
     future or will I be excused from any further service?

   Yes. You can be asked to serve in the future if your name is selected
   at random again. However, if two whole years have not passed since you
   ended your previous Federal jury duty, you may request to be excused.

     If I work, do I still have to serve as a juror?

   Yes. A great majority of jurors work. The employer has to provide the
   employee with time to serve as a juror.

     Can my employer fire me because I am serving as a federal juror?

   No. Jury service is a citizen’s obligation and the employer has to
   provide the employee with time to serve. Your employment is protected
   by Federal and State law. It is illegal for an employer to fire an
   employee because of jury service.

     Is my employer obligated to pay regular salary even on jury duty
     days?

   No. The employer is not obligated to do so. Although most private
   companies do, some reach an agreement with the employee to have them
   return the daily allowance paid to the juror ($40 a day), and they pay
   the employee in full. Other employers may just deduct the $40 from that
   person’s daily salary and come out even, and some companies simply do
   not pay the employee when out on jury duty.

     What are the reasons to request to be excused from jury duty and
     what is the correct procedure to follow when doing so?

   The judges of this Court deem any person to be qualified to serve on
   grand and petit juries in this district unless he or she:
     * Is not a citizen of the United States 18 years old who has resided
       for a period of one year within the judicial district;
     * Is unable to read, write, and understand the English language with
       a degree of proficiency sufficient to fill out satisfactorily the
       juror qualification form;
     * Is unable to speak the English language;
     * Is incapable, by reason of mental or physical infirmity, to render
       satisfactory jury service; or
     * Has a charge pending against him for the commission of, or has been
       convicted in state or federal court of record of a crime punishable
       by imprisonment for more than one year and his civil rights have
       not been restored.

   The judges find it to be in the public interest and not inconsistent
   with the Jury Selection and Service Act of 1968 to exempt from jury
   duty the following:
     * Members in active service in the Armed Forces of the United States;
     * Members of the fire or police department of any state, district,
       territory, possession or subdivision thereof;
     * Public officers in the executive, legislative, or judicial branches
       of the government of the United States, or any state, district,
       territory or possession or subdivision thereof, who are actively
       engaged in the performance of official duties. Public officer shall
       mean a person who is either elected to public office or who is
       directly appointed by a person elected to public office.

   The district court hereby finds that excuse from jury service by
   members of the following groups of persons will not be inconsistent
   with the Act and shall be granted upon individual request:
     * Persons over 70 years of age;
     * Persons who have, within the past two years, served on a federal
       grand or petit jury;
     * Persons in charge of minor children or providing care for an infirm
       individual;
     * Volunteer safety personnel who serve without compensation as
       firefighters, or members of a rescue squad or ambulance crew for a
       public agency.

   The judge who is qualifying a jury panel is vested with complete
   authority to make a final decision with respect to whether a particular
   person may be disqualified, exempt or excused. Any person summoned for
   jury service may be excused by the Court, or by the Clerk under
   supervision of the Court, upon a showing of undue hardship or extreme
   inconvenience, for such period as the Court deems necessary, or the
   name of such person may be reinserted into the qualified jury wheel for
   selection.

   For more information regarding jury service, contact the Jury Clerk at
   (405)609-5040 or click here for the juror manuals.


   BAR ADMISSION


     What are the requirements for admittance to the Bar of the District
     Court?

   Local Rule 83.1 governs the role of attorneys, the committee on
   admissions and grievances, procedure for admission, eligibility,
   reciprocity, attorneys representing the United States, and admission
   pro hac vice.

     Link to Local Rules


   FINANCE


     To whom should attorneys or the public in general write out check or
     money orders when making payments at the Clerk’s Office?

   All check must be written to the Clerk of Court or Clerk, U.S. District
   Court.

     What must be done to get back a cash bail or bond posted in the
     Clerk’s Office?

   You must write a motion requesting disbursement of the cash bail or
   bond. The motion must stipulate the name of surety, name of defendant,
   and amount to be disbursed.  A check will only be issued in the name of
   the person who appears as surety on the bail form.

     When does the Clerk’s Office pay out attorneys or interested parties
     from funds in the Court registry?

   When an order from the Judge is received at the finance section of the
   Clerk’s Office granting disbursement to the attorney or party in
   interest. Once the order is received, a check is generally disbursed
   within two business days. The finance clerk will mail the check.

     Is all money received at the Clerk’s Office registry invested?

   No. A Court order must state that the money is to be deposited into an
   interest bearing account. Any investment involving the assumption of
   market risk is made only pursuant to Court order.

     If we want to pick up the check instead of mailing, whom shall we
     contact?

   You may contact the financial administrator at (405) 609-5047.


   EMPLOYMENT


     How do I apply for a position with the Court?

   Vacancies are posted at www.uscourts.gov . Deputy clerk positions are
   also generally published in the Sunday Oklahoman. Law clerk positions
   are generally published in the Oklahoma Bar Journal. The Court requests
   applicants submit a resume rather than a government application form.
   Law clerk applicants are also requested to submit a writing sample and
   sometimes submit resumes directly to the Judge’s chamber throughout the
   year.


   CJA (CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT)


     I served as court appointed counsel pursuant to the CJA of 1996. Am
     I responsible for the appeal?

   Local Criminal Rule 44.1 and 44.2 and General Order 98-1 govern the
   Western District’s plan for the implementation of the CJA. In
   accordance with General Order 98-1 (F)(3), your appointment remains in
   full force and effect until relieved of duty by order of the district
   court or the court of appeals. See General Order 98-1 for more details.

     Link to Local Rules


   COURT OF APPEALS


     Does the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals hear oral arguments from
     Oklahoma City?

   Yes. Conferences are set by the Tenth Circuit and are held on the 5^th
   floor of the Courthouse.

     Video Conference Schedule (.pdf format)


   FILING DOCUMENTS


     What is the procedure for filing a motion/document under seal?

   When filing a motion/document under seal, you should follow these
   steps:
     * Place the motion/document to be sealed in an open, large manilla
       envelope.
     * Prepare a cover motion requesting permission to file your
       motion/document under seal.
     * Attach the cover motion by stapling it outside the envelope
       containing the motion/document to be sealed.
     * File the motion/document to be sealed at the intake counter. The
       intake clerk will stamp both the documents and will immediately
       give it to the Chief Deputy Clerk or the Operations Manager for
       docketing and delivery to the presiding judge or magistrate judge.
     * Once the judge or magistrate judge has ruled upon the cover motion
       to seal, the sealed motion/document will be sealed and placed in
       the vault or, in the case of denial of the motion, will be placed
       in the case file.

     How do I avoid filing mistakes that could delay the processing of my
     documents with the Court?

   The intake counter clerks have found that the top four errors in the
   filing of documents are:
     * 1^st- Improper caption or attempting to file in the wrong court;
     * 2^nd- Failure to include an extra copy;
     * 3^rd- No proposed order in accordance with Local Rule 7;
     * 4^th- Taking order directly to the judge’s chambers.

   If you have any questions about filing, call the Clerk’s Office at
   (405) 609-5000 before you attempt to file.

   Hit Counter

   [USEMAP:footer.gif]
