http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_1218accomp.htm

     Republican Environmental Accomplishments from the 107^th Congress:



                               Now Public Law

   P.L. 107-11 (formerly H.R. 1696) World War II Memorial Act requires the
   Secretary of the Interior to permit the World War II memorial to be
   constructed expeditiously at the dedicated Rainbow Pool site in the
   District of Columbia.  This memorial recognizes the significant
   sacrifice that American s paid in WWII and commemorates their memory
   for future generations.

   P.L. 107-13 (formerly H.R. 581) The Wildland Fire Management Act
   authorizes the Secretaries of the Interior and of Agriculture to use
   wildland fire management funds to reimburse the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
   Service for the costs of its compliance with Endangered Species Act
   consultation requirements.  Last summer, 7.3 million acres were burned
   at a cost of $1.6 billion to the American public.  No law currently
   exists that allows these funds to be transferred from the U.S. Forest
   Service to U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service and National Marine Fisheries
   Service to fund this critical fire prevention work.  This prevents
   another summer of devastating fires; by jointly use this money to
   quickly reduce the amount of hazardous fire fuels (dead wood and
   underbrush) in our forests.

    P.L. 107-28 (formerly H.R. 271) Designating Lands for Use as a Senior
   Assisted Living Center transfers land to Carson City, Nevada from the
   Bureau of Land Management in order to provide for a Senior Assisted
   Living Center or other related public purpose.  The Carson City Senior
   Center has expanded as far as its boundaries would allow, so the BLM
   provided vacant land adjacent to the Senior Center for expansion.  A
   new center in combination with existing facilities will provide a venue
   where seniors with limited mobility can have access to an assisted
   living center and an adult day care center in one condensed area.

    P.L. 107-30 (formerly H.R. 427) Bull Run Watershed Management Act will
   extend the protection for the watershed of the Little Sandy River and
   include it as a part of the Bull Run Watershed unit in Oregon.  Since
   1895, Bull Run has been Portland's primary source of drinking water.
   This bill will shift any future logging away from the Little Sandy
   River watershed in an attempt to improve the chances that the city of
   Portland may someday use Little Sandy=s water resources.

   P.L. 107-59 (formerly H.R. 146) Great Falls Historic District Study Act
   of 2001 requires the Secretary of the Interior to study whether to add
   the Great Falls Historic District in Paterson, New Jersey, as a unit of
   the National Park System.  This study will determine suitability and
   feasibility of recognizing the historic and cultural significance of
   the lands and structures of the Great Falls Historic District.

   P.L. 107-60 (formerly H.R. 1000) William Howard Taft National Historic
   Site Adjustment Act of 2001 supplements the existing land at the
   Historic Site, provides more land for the Taft boyhood home and for a
   school that Sabis Educational Systems is planning to construct.  The
   historic site commemorates the only man to serve as President and Chief
   Justice of the United States.

   P.L. 107-61 (formerly H.R. 1161) Authorizing the American Friends of
   the Czech Republic to Establish a Memorial to Honor Tomas G. Masaryk in
   the District of Columbia authorizes the American Friends of the Czech
   Republic to establish a memorial honoring Tomas G. Masaryk.  This bill
   authorizes the commemoration of the founder and first president of the
   Republic of Czechoslovakia whose personal courage and devotion to
   democracy gave way to a country of personal freedoms and rule of law.

    P.L. 107-62 (formerly H.R. 1668) Authorizing the Adams Memorial
   Foundation to Establish a Commemorative Work Honoring Former President
   John Adams on federal land in the District of Columbia. The memorial
   honors former Presidents John Adams and John Quincy Adams for their
   legacy in public service.   Few families have contributed as profoundly
   to the United States for the cause of freedom and individual rights.

    P.L. 107-65 (formerly H.R. 182) Eight Mile River Wild and Scenic River
   Study Act of 2001 amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate a
   segment of the Eight Mile River in Connecticut for study by the
   Secretary of the Interior for potential addition to the National Wild
   and Scenic Rivers System.  This bill will provide local residents,
   government officials, and river users a cooperative use of the Eight
   Mile River without endangering its unique blend of wildlife,
   ecological, and recreational resources as well as historical and
   cultural sites linked to America s heritage.

    P.L. 107-78 (formerly H.R. 2924) Reducing Vandalism and Destruction of
   Property by authorizing Federal Power Marketing Administrations to pay
   rewards for information regarding vandalism and theft at communication
   sites, substations, and transmission lines.  Every year hundreds of
   thousands of dollars are lost due to vandalism and theft.  This bill
   will not only protect vital communication lines, but also reduce yearly
   damaged property at such Federal Power sites.

    P.L. 107-69 (formerly H.R. 2925) Providing for the Security of Dams,
   Facilities, and Resources Under the Jurisdiction of the Bureau of
   Reclamation by authorizing the Bureau to contract for law enforcement
   operations.  This bill, following the terrorist attacks on September
   11, reflects Congress= desire to quickly provide for the security and
   safety of Federal Dams, Facilities, and Resources.

    Bills Passed by the HouseBills Passed by the HouseBills Passed by the
           HouseBills Passed by the House as of December 12, 2001


   H.R. 4 - Securing America's Future Energy Act of 2001 enhances energy
   conservation, research, and development and provides for security and
   diversity in the energy supply for the American people. This bill
   encompasses a wide range of energy issues and funds research for
   current and alternative energy in an environmentally safe way.  This
   piece of legislation is a landmark in environmental policy as it seeks
   to develop alternative energy sources that are nonintrusive to wildlife
   and lands.

   H.R. 37 - Amending the National Trails System Act authorizes a
   feasibility study for routes and trails that may be designated as
   components of the Oregon, Pony Express, California, and Mormon Pioneer
   National Historic Trails.  The bill provides for the future expansion
   of the National Trails System and thus the continued enjoyment of
   historic, pristine lands along the west coast.

   H.R. 38 - Homestead National Monument of America Additions Act
   authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to acquire four parcels of
   land from willing sellers to be included in the boundaries of the
   Homestead National Monument of America in the State of Nebraska.  This
   bill will provide for a new Heritage Center that will increase
   educational value through interpretive exhibits, public research
   facilities, and administrative offices.

    H.R. 400 - The Establishment of the Ronald Reagan Boyhood Home will
   preserve the boyhood home of the American president who helped end the
   Cold War and rejuvenate America s pride.  This bill directs the
   Secretary of the Interior to purchase the Ronald Reagan Boyhood Complex
   in Dixon, Illinois, and related personal property; designate the
   complex as the Ronald Reagan Boyhood Home National Historic Site; enter
   into a cooperative agreement with the Ronald Reagan Boyhood Home
   Foundation for the management, operation, and use of the Site; and
   complete a general management plan for the Site.

    H.R. 434 - The Emigrant Wilderness Preservation Act of 2001 provides
   for the maintenance and continued operation of twelve concrete dams and
   weirs in the Emigrant Wilderness.  The bill ensures that these historic
   dams and weirs will not be left to deteriorate and endanger the
   delicate environment of the Stanislaus National Forest in California.

    H.R. 451 - Mount Nebo Wilderness Boundary Adjustment Act adjusts the
   current boundary of the Mount Nebo Wilderness Area by removing 279
   acres of federal land from wilderness areas that include water systems
   and facilities that cannot be adequately maintained because motorized
   or mechanical equipment is prohibited from entering.  Unless the
   current situation is corrected to allow for maintenance of these
   systems using motorized equipment, large-scale damage, erosion, and
   disruptions in water supplies are expected for these communities.

   H.R. 483 - Using the Trust Land and Resources of the Confederated
   Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon allows any tribal
   land, resources, and assets on the Warm Springs Reservation in Oregon
   to be leased by the Indian owners for the purpose of public, religious,
   educational, recreational, residential, and business.  The bill also
   prevents any other federal laws concerning Indian tribes from rendering
   the agreement unenforceable or void and recognizes the history of those
   tribes in relation to the land spoken of.

    H.R. 601 - Craters of the Moon National Monument redesignates the land
   under former President Clinton s Proclamation 7373 as national
   preserve.   Before the inclusion of the expansion area in the national
   monument, these federal lands were open to hunting. The National Parks
   Service historically disallows hunting on lands under its jurisdiction
   unless specifically mandated by Congress. This bill ensures the
   continued access of hunters to those Federal lands included within the
   boundaries of Idaho's Craters of the Moon National Monument.

    H.R. 640 - The Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area
   Adjustment Act amends the boundaries of the national park to ensure the
   protection of critical habitat required for the movement of wildlife
   between the Santa Monica Mountains and the Simi Hills of Los Angeles
   and Ventura Counties. This bill was introduced at the request of the
   National Park Service.

    H.R. 642 - The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   Chesapeake Bay Office Reauthorization Act provides money for the
   Chesapeake Bay Office and includes funds for a community-based fishery
   and habitat restoration grants and assistance program.  This bill also
   requires a study to determine the current health of the Bay and make
   recommendations for management actions to optimize its return to a
   healthier ecosystem.

   H.R. 643 - African Elephant Conservation Reauthorization Act of 2001
   authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to spend up to $5 million per
   year in appropriated funds for conservation projects to assist African
   elephants until 2007.  Money has been used in various conservation
   projects including, purchasing anti-poaching equipment, funding
   population surveys, and relocating elephants from drought regions.
   Conservationists feel that without this Act, the elephant would
   disappear from its historic range because the fund has been the only
   continuous source of new money for elephant conservation efforts.

    H.R. 645 - The Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Reauthorization Act
   of 2001 authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to spend up to $10
   million per year to fund conservation projects to assist endangered
   rhinos and tigers in Africa and Asia.  Thanks to these funds, 111
   conservation projects in 16 countries in Africa and Asia have been
   funded, totaling $.9 million, to protect these highly endangered rhinos
   and tigers.

    H.R. 695 - The Oil Region National Heritage Area Act directs the
   Secretary of the Interior to conduct studies to document the
   industrial, engineering, building, and architectural history of the
   area and to preserve our nation s oil heritage and development.

    H.R. 700 - Asian Elephant Conservation Reauthorization Act of 2001
   ensures that funding for elephant conservation projects will continue
   through 2007.  In the past four years, Congress has appropriated $2.9
   million, which has been wisely invested in 46 on-the-ground projects to
   conserve endangered Asian elephants in 12 range countries in Asia.


   H.R. 834 - National Trails System Willing Seller Act amends the
   National Trails System Act by clarifying the authority of the Federal
   Government to purchase land from willing sellers along the majority of
   trails.  The bill allows future land purchases and at the same time
   provides for the development and completion of already existing trails
   within the National Trails System.  This ensures the preservation of
   the trail system for future generations.

    H.R. 880 - Providing for the Acquisition of Property in Washington
   County, Utah establishes the Red Cliffs Reserve to protect the
   endangered Desert Tortoise and complete the Red Cliffs Reserve.  This
   legislation not only protects the endangered Desert Tortoise, but also
   preserves additional lands adjacent to the Red Cliffs in Washington
   County, Utah.

    H.R. 980 - Establishing the Moccasin Bend National Historic Site in
   the State of Tennessee as a Unit of the National Park System recognizes
   its importance as an historical and archaeological landmark that
   reflects the vast history of the United State.  This bill transfers
   Moccasin Bend, recognized for its nationally significant natural
   resources, into the National Park Service.

    H.R. 1157 - The Pacific Salmon Recovery Act authorizes the Secretary
   of Commerce to provide financial assistance to the States of Alaska,
   Washington, Oregon, California, and Idaho for salmon habitat
   restoration projects in coastal waters and upland drainages. The
   appropriated money will go toward projects that will restore and
   conserve endangered and threatened salmon, steelhead, sea-run cutthroat
   trout, and their habitat.  This legislation will help provide
   additional protection for several species of fish that are threatened
   or endangered.

    H.R. 1230 - Detroit River International Wildlife Refuge Establishment
   Act establishes an international wildlife refuge in the Lower Detroit
   River region to conserve and restore aquatic community characteristics
   while maintaining conservation of fish and wildlife as well as
   compatible hunting, fishing, photography, wildlife observation and
   environmental education.  This bill allows for the restoration of
   important habitats, ecological features, and wildlife while preserving
   the areas historical significance.

   H.R. 1384 - Navajo Long Walk National Historic Trail Act commemorates
   the 350 mile march of the Navajo Indians to eastern New Mexico, in
   which 3,000 Indians died, by designating this path as a National
   Historic Trail.  This legislation recognizes the injustice served to
   the Navajo Indian Tribe and seeks to preserve the significance of the
   events and the land.

    H.R. 1456 - Booker T. Washington National Monument Boundary Adjustment
   Act of 2001 provides additional acreage in order to protect the
   birthplace and plantation site of the prominent African American
   teacher and philosopher.  This bill recognizes the impact that Booker
   T. Washington had on American history as well as African American
   history and freedom.

     H.R. 1576 - The James Peak Wilderness and Protection Area Act amends
   the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 to designate specified lands in the
   Arapaho and Roosevelt National Forests as the James Peak Wilderness.
   Under this bill, the unique character of these lands will be maintained
   and continued access for those seeking to enjoy them will be provided
   to future generations.

    H.R. 1628 - El Camino Real de los Tejas National Trails Act amends the
   National Trails System Act to include the El Camino Real de los Tejas
   trail and recognize is historical significance as and early trading
   route for Native Americans and the Spanish royals.  This bill is also
   an attempt by Congress to coordinate an international effort to
   recognize the significance of the trail, and foster education and
   research of its history with the country of Mexico.

    H.R. 1661 - Extending the Authority of Washington, Oregon, and
   California to Manage the Dungeness Crab Fishery indefinitely provided
   the states with the ability to manage and conserve Dungeness crab.  The
   legislation maintains the economic stability of the region while
   preserving the Dungeness crab.

    H.R. 1776 - Buffalo Bayou National Heritage Area Study Area Act
   authorizes a suitability study for the designation of a National
   Heritage Area in order to recognize the cultural, historic, political,
   and economic significance that the Buffalo Bayou played in the
   formation of modern day Houston.  This legislation recognizes the bayou
   as historically significant in Texas independence, industrial era, and
   will also recognize the influence of both Mexican and African
   Americans.

    H.R. 1814 - Metacomet-Monadnock-Mattabesett Trail Study Act of 2001
   would extend the National Trails System Act to include the mentioned
   trails that cross several early Native American Settlements and the
   Connecticut River Valley.  This bill preserves the unique historical
   significance of the lands included.

    H.R. 1913 - The Acoma Indian Reservation Act provides for the exchange
   of subsurface rights, including mineral rights, within the Acoma Indian
   Reservation into the trust for the Pueblo of Acoma.  This bill is an
   important step in Indian affairs as it ensures the Acoma Indians that
   their sacred land will not be developed for its mineral resources in
   the years to come.

    H.R. 1937 - Pacific Northwest Feasibility Studies Act of 2001
   authorizes studies of water resource projects in Washington that would
   provide for the future needs of the Tulalip, Lower Klallam, and Makah
   tribes.  This water resource project would provide potable water and
   wastewater distribution to meet future domestic and commercial needs.

   H.R. 1989 - Fisheries Conservation Act of 2001 extends authority or
   authorization of appropriations through FY 2006 for the following Acts:
   (1) Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986; (2) Anadromous Fish
   Conservation Act; (3) Atlantic Striped Bass Conservation Act; (4)
   Atlantic Coastal Fisheries Cooperative Management Act; (5) Atlantic
   Tunas Convention Act of 1975; and (6) Northwest Atlantic Fisheries
   Convention Act of 1995.  The bill also authorizes appropriations for
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration programs

    H.R. 2062 - Connecticut River Salmon Act extends the effective period
   of the consent of Congress to the interstate compact relating to the
   restoration of Atlantic salmon to the Connecticut River Basin and
   creating the Connecticut River Atlantic Salmon Commission.

   H.R. 2115 - Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities
   Act Amendment authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to aid in the
   design, planning, and construction of a project to reclaim and reuse
   wastewater, including degraded groundwaters, within and outside of the
   service area of Lakehaven Utility District.  This legislation is an
   important step toward renewable resources, specifically water that
   would provide for restoration of other natural water sources in the
   Lakehaven District.

    H.R. 2238 - Fern Lake Conservation and Recreation Act of 2001
   authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to acquire Fern Lake and the
   surrounding watershed in the states of Kentucky and Tennessee for
   addition to the Cumberland Gap National Historic Park.  The acquisition
   of the land would protect the Middlesboro, Kentucky, watershed and to
   preserve the vista from Pinnacle Overlook, the parks most visited
   attraction.

   H.R. 2385 - Virgin River Dinosaur Footprint Preserve Act provides
   protection for rare paleontological resources discovered in St. George,
   Utah.  The bill also allows the government to provide technological and
   scientific assistance in the construction and maintenance of a
   permanent structure to preserve the paleontological finds, encourage
   public education, and facilitate research.

    H.R. 2585 - Chiloquin Dam Fish Passage Feasibility Study Act of 2001
   studies the feasibility of providing for adequate upstream and
   downstream passage for the two threatened species of Sucker Fish.
   Currently, 95 percent of the fish are unable to reach their spawning
   ground above the dam.  This study will determine the best alternative
   for providing passage at the damn site.

    H.R. 2742 - Native American Cultural Center and Museum Act directs the
   Secretary of the Interior to offer to award financial assistance grants
   and technical assistance to the Native American Cultural and
   Educational Authority of Oklahoma (NACEA) for the development of the
   Native American Cultural Center and Museum in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
   This bill would promote the history and culture of the Native Americans
   that resided in Oklahoma.

   H.R. 2828 - Klamath Basin Emergency Operation and Maintenance Refund
   Act of 2001 provides relief for those farmers who are affected by
   drought conditions and requirements of the Endangered Species Act
   imposed in the Klamath Basin area.  This bill returns the unjustly
   collected funds for Klamath Project Irrigation and drainage to the
   local farmers.

    H.R. 2976 - Healing Opportunities in Parks and the Environment Pass
   Act recognizes survivors, victims' families, rescuers, and medical
   personnel involved in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001,
   terrorist airplane hijackings and subsequent attacks on the World Trade
   Center and Pentagon by providing a free parks pass to all federal
   lands.  The bill seeks to recognize those people directly affected by
   the sudden and tragic loss of loved ones along with those who have
   given so much in aid and assistance in the recovery effort.

   H.R 3322 - Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge Visitor Center Act directs
   the Secretary of the Interior to construct an Education and
   Administrative Center at the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge in Box
   Elder County, Utah.  This center would serve to educate the public as
   well as improve research, protection and health of waterfowl habitat.

   H.Res. 54 - Commending African American Pioneers in Colorado expresses
   the sense that Congress encourages all Americans to learn about the
   history of African Americans, especially their significant role in
   settling and shaping the American West.  It also supports the
   restoration of the African American community at Dearfield, Colorado,
   to educate the American public about the history and contributions of
   African Americans to the West and the United States.

    H.Con.Res. 270 - Recognizing November as Native American Heritage
   Month expresses the sense of Congress that Americans should take time
   during this month to recognize the many accomplishments and
   contributions made by native peoples.  The bill recognizes the impact
   Native Americans have had in government, specifically freedom of speech
   and separation of powers, in American conflict, as they have served
   with valor in all wars, and contributions to fields of study and
   society.


     Bills Passed by the Resources Committee, but not yet taken up by the
                                    House

   H.R. 701 - Conservation and Reinvestment Act provides royalties from
   Continental Shelf oil and gas production to assist in coastal ecosystem
   conservation, by establishing a renewable resource for wildlife
   conservation, providing funds for urban park recovery, historic
   preservation, maritime preservation, as well as aid for endangered and
   threatened species recovery.

   H.R. 1491 - Utah Public Lands Artifact Preservation Act of 2001
   provides a grant to the University of Utah to construct a new facility
   for the Museum of Natural History that would assist in the preservation
   of archaeological, paleontological, zoological, geological, and
   botanical artifacts.   This legislation is an important step towards
   the preservation of scientific discoveries and artifacts that will
   provide for continued educational opportunities.

    H.R. 1925 - Waco Mammoth Site Study Area Act directs the Secretary of
   the Interior to study the suitability of designating the Waco Mammoth
   Site Area located in Waco, Texas, as a unit of the National Park
   System.  This bill would recognize the importance of the Waco Mammoth
   Site and the bones of Columbian mammoths found there, by designating it
   as a unit of the National Park System.

    H.R. 1963 - George Rogers Clark Trail Study Act of 2001 authorizes the
   Secretary of the Interior to conduct a feasibility and suitability
   study for including the route taken by American soldier and
   frontiersman George Rogers Clark and his men during the Revolutionary
   War to capture British Forts as part of the National Trails System
   Act.  Inclusion of this trail in the National Trail System memorializes
   the role that George Rogers Clark and his men played in the collapse of
   British power in the Midwest during the Revolutionary War

    H.R. 2234 - Tumacacori National Historical Park Boundary Revision Act
   of 2001 revises the boundary of the Tumacacori National Historical Park
   in Southern Arizona, by including an additional 310 acres of land
   adjacent to the park.  This will provide for educational enhancement at
   the park by developing access to associated mission resources.

    H.R. 2488 - Pilot Peak Wilderness Act designates specified Federal
   lands in Box Elder County, Utah, as wilderness.  The bill permits
   continued livestock grazing, but protects the wilderness from entry and
   disposal, mining, geothermal leasing, and mineral excavation.  This
   bill creates 23,000 acres of wilderness protecting the habitat of the
   threatened Cutthroat Trout and preserving the important history of the
   area.
