http://www.transportation.anl.gov/ttrdc/engine/diesel-pm.html

   Argonne Transportation Logo [transparent.gif]
   Home Site Map Working with Argonne What's New Publications
   [sec6_1.gif]
     [transparent.gif]

   Overview
   Technology Assessments
   Batteries
   Fuel Cells
   Alternative Fuels
   Engines and Emissions Control
   Hybrid Electric Vehicles
   Materials and Manufacturing
   Modeling and Computing Recycling Technologies Sensors
   Vehicle Systems
   Other Technologies
   Student Competitions

   Staff
   Facilities
   Awards
   Links


Engines/Emissions

Revealing the True Nature of Diesel Particulates

   Although they produce fewer greenhouse gases than conventional gasoline
   vehicles, diesel-fueled vehicles are often described as sooty and
   dirty. The soot produced by diesel vehicles, known as particulate
   matter (PM), is emerging as one of the most important components of
   diesel emissions to be controlled.

   There are many ideas about how to reduce particulate emissions from
   trucks, ranging from after-treatment systems such as particulate traps,
   to improved combustion processes. Before any of those approaches can be
   implemented, researchers need to fully understand all of the factors
   influencing the nature of particulate matter in exhaust emissions,
   including engine load, engine speed, and fuel composition.

                           [diesel-pm1.jpg] Argonne's test engine with the
                                  thermophoretic sampling device attached.

   Argonne researchers created a special thermophoretic sampling device to
   gain a better understanding of the nature of diesel particulates. As
   particles move across a temperature spectrum, a process known as
   thermophoretic force causes them to move from the higher temperature
   range to the lower temperature range. Thermophoretic sampling works by
   collecting particulate matter as it moves across the temperature
   spectrum. The method requires no dilution or treatment of the emissions
   stream prior to sampling, making it a novel method with which to study
   the true nature of the particulate matter being collected.

   Up until now, the methods for evaluating PM in exhaust emissions have
   been largely limited to studies using impactors and dilution tunnels.
   These tools both work by sampling the diluted or undiluted particulates
   in exhaust emissions to reveal the quantitative nature of emitted PM.
   The difficulty with impactors is that they are not good tools for
   measuring small particles; with dilution tunnels, the problem is that
   extra treatment is required before samples can be analyzed chemically.
   Neither approach tells much about the qualitative nature of the PM
   stream.

   [diesel-pm2.jpg] The transmission electron microscope can reveal the
   presence of graphitic structures in PM sampled under high engine loads.

   Using a high-resolution transmission electron microscope (TEM) equipped
   with photographic and data recording capabilities, Argonne scientists
   can capture information about particulate matter found in the emissions
   obtained with the thermophoretic sampler. They can examine individual
   primary-particle sizes, the sizes of massed (agglomerated) particles,
   the degree of oxidation shown by the particles, and the number of
   graphitic structures within the agglomerated PM. Oxidation and graphite
   content are both indicative of soot at high engine operating
   conditions.

Results

   The Argonne researchers have thus far concluded that higher combustion
   temperatures and increased pressure conditions within the engine are
   the factors contributing most to the production of diesel exhaust
   emissions with PM characterized by small, agglomerated,
   oxidized/graphitic (sootier) particles.

Future Plans

   Future research will focus on the following:
    1. further investigation into the effects of engine rpm and load on
       particulate formation and oxidation,
    2. closer examination of the internal microstructure of diesel
       particulates, and
    3. exploration of the impact fuel properties (such as sulfur content)
       have on the size, shape, and content of diesel particulate matter.

Facilities

     * Diesel engine dynamometer
     * High-resolution transmission electron microscope
     * Thermophoretic sampler

Research Partners

   U.S. Department of Energy
   Drexel University
   University of Illinois at Chicago
   Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology

Publications

   Technical Report: Lee et al., "Detailed Characterization of Morphology
   and Dimensions of Diesel Particulates via Thermophoretic Sampling," SAE
   2001-01-3572

   Technical Report: Lee et al., "Morphology, Microstructure, and
   Dimensions of Diesel Engine Particulates," 2nd Joint Meeting of the
   U.S. Section of the Combustion Institute, Oakland CA, March 26-28, 2001

Contact

   For more information, contact Raj Sekar.



     Home | Site Map | Working with Argonne | What's New | Publications
    Overview | Assessments | Batteries | Engines/Emissions | Fuel Cells |
                                    Fuels
       Hybrid Vehicles | Materials/Mfg. | Modeling/Computing | Sensors
   Other Technologies | Competitions | Staff | Facilities | Awards | Links

                                 Contact Us
