http://www.attorneygeneral.gov/cld/medicaid.cfm

   [LINK]-Criminal Law - Attorney General Home Criminal Law - Picture
   Criminal Law - Grid Criminal Law - Search, Sitmap, Contact Us
   Criminal Law Press Office Public Education Public Protection Criminal
   Law Special Features

        Criminal Law
   Home

   Environmental
   Crimes
   Insurance Fraud

   Medicaid Fraud Control

   Drug Strike
   Force

   Organized
   Crime
   Computer Forensics

   Criminal Law
   Articles

   Medicaid Fraud Control Section
   16th Floor Strawberry Square
   Harrisburg, PA  17120
   Phone: 717-783-1481
   Fax: 717-783-5431
   Email: info@attorneygeneral.gov

   HISTORY: Medicaid was created by the U.S. Congress in 1965 to provide
   medical services to poor and disabled Americans. It is funded through a
   combination of state and federal dollars and administered through a
   designated single state agency. Pennsylvania's designated single state
   agency is the Department of Public Welfare (DPW). All 50 states, the
   District of Columbia and U.S. territories participate in the Medicaid
   Program.

   Since 1965, the costs of the Medicaid program have spiraled out of
   control with double-digit inflation almost every year. While there are
   many legitimate reasons for the rising costs, a tremendous amount of
   money is lost to fraud and abuse. Members of Congress and those
   involved in individual state Medicaid programs identified a need to
   establish independent fraud units staffed by coordinated teams of
   attorneys, investigators and auditors, solely dedicated and trained in
   the prosecution of Medicaid fraud.

   In response, Congress enacted Section 17 of the Medicare-Medicaid
   Anti-Fraud and Abuse Amendments of 1977 (Public Law 95-142) which
   established and funded the state Medicaid Fraud Control Unit to
   investigate and prosecute provider fraud in the Medicaid program.

   In 1978, in response to the new law, the Pennsylvania Office of
   Attorney General formed its Medicaid Fraud Control Section (MFCS).

   AUTHORITY: Along with the original jurisdiction to prosecute and
   investigate Medicaid fraud, the Commonwealth Attorneys Act gives the
   OAG the authority to investigate crimes arising out of the activities
   of the MFCS. This enables investigators to follow the leads generated
   by their investigations to other violations of the Pennsylvania Crimes
   Code.

   The main focus of Medicaid Fraud investigations concerns providers
   which are usually physicians, dentists, mental health clinics, drug and
   alcohol clinics, hospitals and health maintenance organizations.
   Recipient fraud is generally left to local district attorneys to
   prosecute.
