http://www.ccities.doe.gov/support.shtml

                               Support graphic

   Support and Funding

      This page provides information about available funding for alternative
      fuels programs and projects. The U.S. Department of Energy is one
      source of funding; however, this page provides links and information
      for additional funding sources too.

      You can view some publications as text-only (HTML) and others as fully
      formatted documents with graphics in Adobe PDF. Download Acrobat
      Reader.

      Funding from DOE
      Frequently Asked Questions
      Funding from Other Sources
      Fleet Tools (Credits/Incentives)

      A new program for designated Clean Cities coalitions offers help for
      coalitions that are facing tough challenges incorporating alternative
      fuel vehicles into their regions. To learn more, visit the Clean Cities
      Technical Assistance (Tiger Team) Projects Web page.

      Funding from DOE
        * December 27, 2002
          DOE Calls for 2002 State Energy Program Special Projects Proposals
          The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is now accepting proposals for
          2002 State Energy Program (SEP) grants. As much as $18.5 million in
          SEP grant money has been set aside for state energy offices to
          promote special projects. Under the Clean Cities/Alternative Fuels
          section, proposals will be accepted for projects that promote:
             + The acquisition of commercially available AFVs that maximize
               alternative fuel use, especially when those vehicles support
               AFV niche market activity center or niche deployment strategy,
               and projects that promote the development of AFV platforms.
             + AFV infrastructure development.
             + The acquisition of AFV school buses.
             + AFV visibility with vehicle signage.
             + Cost sharing toward the salary of a Clean Cities Coordinator.
          SEP grant proposals are due at regional DOE office on March 15,
          2002. Download the solicitation (PDF 959 KB), (MS Word 394 KB), or
          visit the SEP Web page to learn more.
        * May 22, 2001
          2001 State Energy Program Special Project Award Winners
          The U.S. Department of Energy recently announced the winners of the
          2001 State Energy Program Special Project Awards, which provide
          states with financial assistance for building local markets for
          alternative fuels and vehicles. The money will help purchase
          alternative fuel vehicles, develop refueling stations and related
          infrastructure, deploy alternative fuel school buses, provide
          alternative fuel vehicle training, and more. Details.
        * November 14, 2000
          Alternative Fueled Vehicles Regulatory Support
          The National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) on behalf of the
          U.S. Department of Energy, seeks organizations that have the
          capability to assist with coordination of alternative fueled
          vehicle regulations. Possible tasks may include, but are not
          limited to, recommendations for enforcement activities for covered
          fleets, providing information for resolution of Freedom of
          Information requests, and research and recommendations for new
          regulations based on the Energy Policy Act. Lists of qualifications
          due to NREL 12/12/00. Further information and requirements can be
          found at http://cbdnet.access.gpo.gov. Refer to Solicitation #DW270
        * November 8, 2000
          FAA Low Emission Airport Vehicle Grant Program Announced
          The FAA Airports Office has announced the AIR-21 Airport
          Improvement (AIP) grant program for low emission airport vehicles
          (ILEAV). The following PDF files are the Program Guidance Letter
          (PGL), general guidance document, and grant application format. The
          technical guidelines for computing project emission benefits and
          costs will be issued in a few weeks. All information about the
          program will be posted as soon as possible on the FAA Web site:
          http://faa.gov/arp/app600/600home.htm look for the ILEAV link at
          the bottom of the page.
          Guidance Letter (PDF 17 KB), General Guidance (PDF 51 KB), Grant
          application (PDF 18 KB).
        * November 6, 2000
          State Energy Program Special Projects Grants Solicitation (PDF 51
          KB)
        * October 12, 2000
          Cleaner Diesel
          On behalf of the U.S. Department of Energy, the National Renewable
          Energy Laboratory (NREL) invites inquiries from manufacturers of
          catalytic converters for oil-burning cars and diesels, or other
          interested parties, to participate in collaborative, cost-shared
          efforts to develop and commercialize new concepts being developed
          by NREL for the removal of particulate matter from diesel engines.
          Responses due 10/31/00. For more info, contact Ken Touryan, NREL,
          at (303) 275-3009. Refer to Sol# DW251.
        * October 12, 2000
          Fuel Cells and CIDI Engines
          The U.S. Department of Energy announces its intent to issue an RFP
          for R&D and analysis projects for fuel cells, fuels for fuel cells
          and compression ignition, direct injection (CIDI) engines. DOE
          anticipates approx. 35 cooperative agreements related to fuel cell
          technologies, DOE funding estimated at $80 million. Under the CIDI
          portion, approx. 7 awards with DOE funding estimated at $12
          million. Cost share ranges from 20% - 50. The RFP will be issued on
          or about 11/15/00 and is expected to close on 2/15/01. Preapps
          requested but not required. Once issued, the RFP will be posted at:
          http://www.doeal.gov/cpd/readroom.htm. For more info, contact
          Robert D. Lowther at (505) 845-6839. Refer to Sol#
          DE-RP04-01AL67057.
        * August 2, 2000
          SEP Award Winners 2000
          See what alternative fuels projects are being funded under the
          State Energy Program for program year 2000. SEP Award Winners
        * February 29, 2000
          Biomass Cofiring Opportunities
          The U.S. Department of Energy announces its intent to solicit
          proposals for R&D to develop technologies for cofiring biomass
          feedstocks with fossil fuels. $18M -$22M expected to be available.
          Cost share ranges from 20-50%. The solicitation will be available
          on or about 2/23/00 and is expected to close 4/4/00. For more info,
          contact Dona Sheehan, DOE, (412) 386-5918. Once issued, the
          solicitation will be posted at:
          http://www.netl.doe.gov/business/solicit.
        * Richardson Announces New Initiative for "Ultra Clean" Fuels,
          Improved Tailpipe Emission Controls (Press Release and
          Solicitation)
          The U.S. Department of Energy kicked off a major new research
          effort targeting $75 million to develop new ways to produce ultra
          clean fuels and better pollution control devices for tomorrow's
          cars and trucks.
          The Energy Department is asking for proposals in any of three
          categories: (1) projects that produce ultra-clean fuels from a
          variety of energy resources—conventional crude oil, petroleum coke,
          refinery wastes, natural gas, or coal—and verify the performance of
          these fuels by testing in engines, (2) projects that develop
          innovative emission control systems and verify their performance in
          engine tests, or (3) longer-range projects that could lead to
          innovative fuel making processes, components, materials, or
          technologies that refineries and automakers could incorporate into
          future fuel, engine, and emission control systems.
          The Energy Department intends to make the new funding available in
          2000 through 2005 and will require industry partners to share from
          35 to 50 percent of a project's cost, depending on the type of
          project.
        * Solicitation For Financial Assistance Applications
          The Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Transportation
          Technology, is soliciting Applications from designated Clean Cities
          Coalitions for a dedicated Alternative Fuel Vehicle (AFV) rebate
          program. The goal of DOE through this Solicitation is to enable the
          Coalitions to provide a rebate of $2000 for each dedicated AFV
          purchased.
          Eligibility for Award is restricted to DOE designated Clean Cities
          Coalitions. The Clean Cities Coalition must have been approved for
          designation by DOE Headquarters by March 15, 2000.
          Contact: Tammie Lawler at Fax: (303) 275-4788, or
          tammie_lawler@nrel.gov.
        * DOE Offers Grant for AFV Refueling Corridor:
          The Department of Energy (DOE) recently awarded an $80,000 grant to
          Gladstein & Associates to develop an alternative fuel vehicle (AFV)
          fueling infrastructure along interstate highways. The Interstate
          Clean Transportation Corridor (ICTC-3) will be the first of its
          kind to cross international lines, and will stretch from Winnipeg,
          Manitoba, through the central U.S. along interstate highway I-35 to
          Monterrey, Mexico. Liquified natural gas (LNG), compressed natural
          gas, and propane refueling stations will be installed along the
          ICTC-3 route. One of the goals of the project is to encourage
          trucks that use the route to utilize the alterative fuel sources.
          Contact: Gladstein & Associates, phone 310-314-1934.
          DOE plans to fund projects in the development of technologies for
          Class 1-8 truck hybrid propulsion and diesel engine technologies.
          These projects will be offered through the Office of Heavy Vehicle
          Technologies (OHVT). The goal is to develop HEV systems
          technologies utilizing reciprocating natural gas engines for Class
          3-6 urban trucks and buses. For more information, contact Beth
          Holt, DOE contract specialist (423) 576-0783 holtbl@oro.doe.gov.
        * State Energy Program FY 2000 Special Projects Announcement (PDF 180
          KB)
          Effective November 22, 1999. Application forms can be downloaded
          from the following site in WordPerfect or as and Adobe Acrobat PDF
          http://www.eren.doe.gov/golden/applicationdocs.html.
        * See what Alternative Fuels projects are being funded under the
          State Energy Program (SEP) Special Projects for program year 1999.
        * DOE's Cooperative Automotive Research for Advanced Technology
          Program offers research funding to small businesses, colleges, and
          universities.
          The U.S. government also offers funding opportunities to small
          businesses through the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)
          Program
          There are also opportunities for funding through the Partnership
          for a New Generation of Vehicles (PNGV) Program.
        * Pittsburgh Clean Cities Program Offers Funds (PDF 5 KB)
        * Program Year 1999 State Energy Program Special Projects Financial
          Assistance Guidance (PDF 189 KB)
          SEP Notice 99-1
        * Funding Information for Clean Cities Stakeholders and Partners

      Funding from Other Sources
        * March 5, 2001
          EPA Solicitation Notice
          OTAQ Announces RFP for Clean Air Transportation Communities
          EPA's Office of Transportation and Air Quality (OTAQ) recently
          announced a competition soliciting proposals from state, local,
          multistate, and tribal agencies involved with climate change and
          transportation/air quality issues. The full title of the
          solicitation is "Clean Air Transportation Communities: Innovative
          Projects to Improve Air Quality and Reduce Greenhouse Gases." OTAC
          seeks to support up to 10 pilot projects, ranging from $50,000 to
          $300,000 per award to help communities identify and launch
          innovative and practical transportation solutions that reduce
          impacts on the environment and enhance mobility and access. The
          office is looking for pilot projects that will spur reductions in
          transportation-related emissions of criteria pollutants as well as
          greenhouse gases by decreasing vehicle miles traveled and
          increasing the use of cleaner technologies. EPA is particularly
          interested in encouraging projects that incorporate one or more of
          the following elements:
             + Smart Growth efforts to reduce transportation-related
               emissions
             + Commuter Choice
             + Green Fleets/Cleaner Vehicles
          Financial assistance will be in the form of cooperative agreements.
          Final applications are due April 24, 2001, and an optional Intent
          to Apply is requested by March 14, 2001. The full Request for
          Proposals is available online. To learn about public decisionmakers
          and climate change, check out the EPA Global Warming Site. The site
          has a wealth of information on the climate system, state greenhouse
          gas emissions, impacts of climate change, and voluntary actions
          that can be taken at the state and local levels.
        * February 14, 2000
          EPA Solicitation Notice
          Clean Air Transportation Communities: Innovative Projects to
          Improve Air Quality and Reduce Greenhouse Gases EPA announced the
          availability of funds and solicits proposals from state, local,
          multi-state, and tribal agencies involved with climate change and
          transportation air/quality issues, for pilot projects that have a
          high potential to spur innovations in the reduction of
          transportation-related emissions and vehicle miles traveled, at the
          local level and throughout the United States. Download notice for
          full details. Deadline for submitting final proposals is Tuesday,
          April 24, 2001.
        * December 22, 2000
          California Air Resources Board ICAT Grant Program for 2001
          Information and application materials for California Air Resources
          Board (ARB) Innovative Clean Air Technologies (ICAT) Grant Program
          for 2001 are now available on-line at
          http://www.arb.ca.gov/research/icat/solicit.htm. The program will
          offer approximately a million dollars for qualified projects
          involving innovative air-pollution-control technologies. The
          application package must be completed and returned to ARB by
          February 23, 2001. For information about ICAT visit
          http://www.arb.ca.gov/research/icat/icat.htm
        * ARB will hold a public workshop on January 26, 2001, to answer
          questions that potential ICAT grant applicants may have about the
          program, such as how to apply for a grant and how applicants will
          be selected. The question-and-answer session will be preceded by a
          short presentation on the ICAT program. Call Richard Vincent, ICAT
          manager for 2001, at (916) 323-5774 for more infomration.
        * December 15, 2000
          Mobile Source Outreach Funds Available
          On December 15, 2000 the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
          announced the availability of funding to support mobile source
          outreach programs. The intent of the program is to help state air
          quality organizations publicize mobile source strategies that
          reduce pollution. Program emphasis includes such items as voluntary
          measures, commuter choice, car care, and alternative fuels. For
          fiscal year 2001, EPA plans to provide up to a minimum of $550,000
          to approximately six states and local air quality agencies. The
          maximum amount of funding a project will receive from EPA is
          $100,000. There also is a matching fund requirement of 40 percent
          for most organizations.
          Private organizations that are interested in this program must work
          with air pollution control agencies. Agencies that intend to seek
          funding should submit an "intent to apply" by January 7, 2001.
          Formal applications for funding must be submitted by March 2, 2001.
          To contact EPA regarding intent to apply for funding, call
          202.564-9856, Fax 202.565-2085 or e-mail, bullard.susan@epa.gov
          with the following information: your organization's name; a contact
          person; phone number; e-mail address; and project title/subject.
          EPA plans to complete the selection process for projects in early
          April 2001. More funding opportunity information is available at
          www.epa.gov/otaq/rfp.htm.
        * February 29, 2000
          Energy Efficiency and Transportation
          The Southern Appalachian Mountains Initiative (SAMI) seeks
          proposals to assist in developing and evaluating demand management
          strategies based on incentives to reduce air emissions. The focus
          of this work is to evaluate the economic rationality of various
          alternative incentive-based emission management strategies designed
          to induce behavioral change in the consumer behavior of individuals
          and organizations. The topic areas for strategy development are
          energy conservation and transportation. The budget for this work is
          $70K. Proposals are due 3/7/200. The RFP can be accessed at
          http://www.saminet.org. For more info, contact Tom Elmore at (828)
          251-6000.
        * The Clean Air Partnership Fund: Congressional briefing about the
          new Clean Air Partnership Fund — a $200 million grant program
          proposed for fiscal year 2000 for state and local governments.
          California Energy Commission Provides Funding for Alternative
          Fuels, Energy Efficiency in Buildings
          The California Energy Commission (CEC) recently announced two new
          requests for proposals relating to alternative fuels and energy
          efficiency in buildings. The CEC has $740,000 available to fund up
          to three small-scale methane liquefaction and fueling facilities in
          California. The facilities would provide an in-state source of
          liquefied natural gas (LNG) for heavy vehicles; currently,
          California's LNG comes from Wyoming or Kansas. The solicitation is
          the first of six solicitations for alternative fuels planned for
          this year; the remaining solicitations will total nearly $2.5
          million. The CEC also has funding available for research,
          development, and demonstration (RD&D) projects related to building
          energy efficiency. The solicitation requests proposals for a
          collection of "linked" building energy RD&D projects that
          collectively address specific RD&D goals. Up to $6 million per year
          is available for the next three years. For more information, see
          the CEC Requests for Proposals Web page at:
          http://www.energy.ca.gov/contracts/
        * California Environmental Protection Agency, Air Resources Board—
          Solicitation for the Innovative Clean Air Technologies (ICAT)
          Program
        * How to Apply for Environmental Project Funds Under the HDD
          Settlement
        * Competitive Opportunities with NYSERDA — The New York State Energy
          Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA) currently has more
          than $7.3 million available for a variety of projects that directly
          or indirectly affect energy use. This includes a $1 million project
          to develop, improve, or commercialize innovative solar electric or
          wind products or their manufacturing methods. Much of the remaining
          $6.3 million in funds is being offered for projects relating to
          green building designs, advanced transportation technologies, and
          energy-efficiency technologies. For more information, see the
          NYSERDA "Opportunities" Web page
          Transportation/Air Quality Public Information Initiative: "It All
          Adds Up to Cleaner Air" FY99 Demonstration Communities; Request for
          Proposals.
          For more information go to:
             + Federal Register Web Page
             + DOT/Federal Highway Administration Web Page
             + EPA's Office of Transportation and Air Quality Web Page (OTAQ)
               (formerly Office of Mobile Sources)

      Frequently Asked Questions
        * Q: Does the Clean Cities Program provide funding to designated
          Clean Cities?
          A: No, not directly. The Clean Cities Program is not a grant or
          funding program. However, DOE does act as a clearinghouse for
          information on a variety of funding sources, and guides the award
          of federal funds and grants—as available—toward Clean Cities.
        * Q: How can communities get information on funding?
          A: The Clean Cities Hotline (800-224-8437) is available to answer
          questions on various funding options. DOE has available the Clean
          Cities Guide to Alternative Fuel Vehicle Incentives and Laws, which
          includes information on the various types of funding used by and
          available for Clean Cities.

      Fleet Tools (Credits/Incentives)
        * Some fleets are eligible for credits or other incentives based on
          their type and location. The Alternative Fuel Vehicle Fleet Buyer's
          Guide helps fleet managers make informed AFV purchase decisions
          based on mandates, incentives, vehicle prices, refueling
          availability, etc.
        * The Alternative Fuel Vehicle Acquisition and Credits Database is
          also available to allow fleets to report and keep track of
          alternative fuel vehicle acquisitions and the credits that relate
          to the acquisitions.
        * Two relevant IRS publications are also available. Publication 535,
          Business Expenses, outlines the Clean Fuel Vehicle tax deductions
          and credits. IRS Form 8834, Qualified Electric Vehicle Credit is
          required to claim a tax credit for a qualified electric vehicle or
          hybrid electric vehicle purchase.

              [Clean Cities Home] [DOE] [OTT] [Webmaster] [Feedback]
