http://www.tinet.ita.doc.gov/research/index.html

      ITA Tourism Industries
   Return to TI Home
   About Tourism Industries
   Tourism Development
   Tourism Policy
   Export Assistance
   Latest Statistics/Outreach
   Inbound Travel to the U.S.
   Outbound Travel from the U.S.
   Research Programs
   Basic Statistics
   Monthly Statistics
   TI News
   Subscribe for Free
   Archive
   Common Uses
   Unsubscribe
   Policy
   Catalog
   Your Orders
   Links
   Ask TI

   Travel and Tourism Research Programs

     Tourism Industries functions as the U.S. federal tourism office. A
     core responsibility is to collect, analyze, and disseminate
     international travel and tourism statistics for the U.S. Travel and
     Tourism Statistical System. As a result TI is charged with managing,
     improving, and expanding the system to fully account and report the
     impact of travel and tourism in the United States. The following
     statistical programs constitute the international travel and tourism
     statistics for the U.S. Travel and Tourism Statistical System.

   Programs

     Basic Market Analysis

     Hundreds of free analyses generated from Tourism Industries
     programs.

     Survey of International Air Travelers (In-Flight Survey) Program

     Official comprehensive national traveler survey of visitors to and
     from the U.S.

     Visitor Arrivals Program (I-94 Form)

     Official U.S. arrivals source.

     U.S. International Air Traveler Statistics (I-92) Program

     Official passenger traffic to and from the U.S.

     Pleasure Travel Market Studies Program

     Indepth country specific survey and analyses.

     Canadian Statistics Program

     Official source of Canadian related travel.

     Travel and Tourism Satellite Account (TTSA) Program for U.S.

     Effort to establish the official U.S. source for the impact of
     tourism on our economy.

     U.S. effort to standardize tourism definitions.

     Impact of International Visitor Spending on State Economies Program

     Distribution and economic impact of the spending by international
     visitors to the U.S.

     International Travel Receipts And Payments Program

     Spending by international visitors to the U.S. and U.S. residents
     while outside the U.S.

     Forecast of International Arrivals to the U.S. Program

     Forecast of tourism arrivals to the U.S.

     Destination Data Improvement Initiative

     Ways to improve data for international travelers to U.S.
     destinations.
