http://aeldata.phy.nist.gov/MajResProj/Biophysics/biophys.html

   NIST - Biophysics

    High technology health care is one of the leading industry sectors in
      the world's leading economies. The major killers and debilitating
     diseases of an aging population are cancer, heart disease, stroke,
    diabetes, arthritis and neurological disorders. Industry is spending
      hundreds of millions of dollars on research on new diagnostic and
    therapeutic tools. The NIST Physics Laboratory plays a major role in
   developing both research tools and national measurement standards that
   support U.S. industry and allow our industries to compete, to gain, and
     to maintain market share in this intense international competition.

                               Medical Physics


   The role of NIST in developing national standards for medical physics
   is exemplified by the work of the Ionizing Radiation Division in
   standards for diagnostic and therapeutic radiology. X-rays continue to
   provide some of the most effective screening tools in modern medicine.
   There are approximately 26 million x-ray mammograms per year and
   helical computerized tomography (CT) is recognized as extremely
   effective in screening for early stage lung cancer and for
   atherosclerosis of coronary arteries. NIST provides the x-ray standards
   for the medical physics community in North America through close
   collaborations with the American Association of Physicists in Medicine
   and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). We have recently moved to
   expand this support to the International Atomic Energy Agency to
   provide for mammography instrument calibrations for developing
   countries.
   Definition
   Medical Physics uses physical tools, including optical and ionizing
   radiation, ultrasound, lasers, thermal and magnetics technologies, in
   the diagnosis and treatment of disease. The high technology equipment
   used in diagnostic and therapeutic applications is often designed and
   maintained by medical physicists.

                      Mammography calibration facility

              Mammography calibration facility © Robert Rathe

   Ionizing radiation together with surgery and chemotherapy comprise the
     main tools in treatment of cancers. Radiation is used in three very
        different ways, and each of these has a quite separate set of
      requirements for measurements and standards. Beams of photons and
     charged particles from accelerators are used to treat about 600,000
   patients annually in the U.S. NIST develops detectors such as absorbed
   dose water calorimeters to measure radiation beams and transfers these
     calibrations to secondary laboratories including the University of
      Wisconsin-Madison, K&S Associates in Nashville, the M.D. Anderson
      Cancer Center in Houston, and the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer
                             Center in New York.
                             Balloon angioplasty
                    Balloon angioplasty © Jeffrey Aarons

    The second form of radiation treatment is brachytherapy, which is one
     of the fastest growing markets in radiation devices today. In this
    application, small radioactive sources are implanted or inserted into
     the body and the short range gamma-ray and beta-particle radiations
    kill cancerous cells while minimizing damage to normal tissues. NIST
      has taken a leading role in developing measurement standards and
      protocols for these new devices. The current medical research is
      focused on prostate cancer and prevention of restenosis following
     balloon angioplasty. However, there are many new radionuclides and
     devices proposed for this field of therapy and medical centers are
     considering optimum treatments for other cancers and diseases using
                             these tiny sources.
       Decay scheme and liquid scintillation spectrum of astatine-211
       Decay scheme and liquid scintillation spectrum of astatine-211.
               Radiopharmaceutical Standardization Laboratory

     The third form of radiation delivery is systemic therapy in which a
    radioactive labeled pharmaceutical is administered that seeks out the
   target cells. NIST has worked closely with the pharmaceutical industry
     of North America to identify new drug products that will be used in
    clinical trials. Rapid development of NIST standards for new products
     is an essential first step towards FDA approval for use in humans.
    Recent advances in targeting cancer cells with monoclonal antibodies,
   antibody fragments and smaller proteins is driving our research towards
     beta-particle and alpha-particle emitters that will deliver a high
                     radiation dose to the tumor volume.

                                 Biophysics

   The Physics Laboratory programs in biological physics stem from our
   expertise in molecular physics, surface science, photon, electron and
   radiation physics in all of the Divisions of the laboratory. New
   spectroscopies are being developed aimed specifically at characterizing
   biological structures.
   Definition
   Biophysics uses the concepts and tools of physical chemistry and
   molecular physics to define and analyze the structures, energetics,
   dynamics, and interactions of biological molecules. This field of
   research is leading to designs of new classes of instrumentation for
   use in the expanding fields of genomics, proteomics, and clinical
   diagnostics for a variety of biological markers.

       Teraherz spectroscopy A program is underway to explore the low
   frequency intramolecular dynamics of proteins and DNAs. Current efforts
        focus on obtaining THz spectra of models for proteins (e.g.,
   N-methylacetamide) and small, synthetic DNA oligomers (e.g., poly(A)4).
         We then plan to employ mid-infrared and far-infrared (THz)
       time-resolved spectroscopies to directly monitor low frequency,
      concerted motions of small proteins and helical DNA oligomers or
    related systems. Such measurements will extract protein-folding rates
           and determine mechanisms responsible for DNA base pair
      hydrogen-bonding, surface interactions and helix dynamics. These
   investigations use state-of-the-art pulsed THz generation and detection
       methods including GaAs antennas and ZnTe nonlinear crystals for
    broadband spectroscopic determinations and imaging of short-chain DNA
    probes on supports. Application of molecular dynamics modeling and 2D
       correlation techniques are also being employed for identifying
           molecular motions responsible for observed THz spectra.

   Enhanced Raman spectroscopy Raman spectroscopy is being applied to the
      conformational studies of small peptides in crystals, in rare-gas
    matrixes, and in solution. In addition, we are using polarized Raman
     spectroscopy to determine the secondary and tertiary structures of
    membrane proteins and their orientation with respect to the membrane.
   In these studies, the proteins are bound to synthetic lipid bilayers or
   bicelles and aligned in a high magnetic field for study. The alignment
    is similar to what can be done with liquid crystals with electric or
      magnetic fields and has been successfully used in bimolecular NMR
    spectroscopy. By studying these aligned proteins with polarized Raman
     spectroscopy we obtain additional data about the orientation of the
     bond-polarizability tensors with respect to the known polarization
     direction of the laser. This information is combined with molecular
    models to infer details about the structure of the protein. The Raman
      spectrometer presently consists of a single-frequency Ar^+ laser,
     operating at various frequencies between 455 nm and 514 nm, a He-Ne
   laser operating at 633 nm, or a single or frequency doubled Ti:Sapphire
     laser, with tunable frequency output from 700 nm to 975 nm and from
       350 nm to 490 nm. The Raman-scattered light is analyzed with a
    0.5 cm^-1 resolution triple-grating monochromator. The selectivity of
      the monochromator is sufficient for resolving features to within
                    10 cm^-1 of the excitation frequency.

   Near field scanning optical microscopy Single molecule probes have been
   used by others to study structure and dynamics of single proteins in a
      biological or biomimetic environment. In the next year we plan to
     extend these studies to include the behavior of single molecules in
   bioengineered materials. As part of this effort we are constructing an
     instrument capable of fast full-field single-molecule imaging whose
    applications include studying translational diffusion. Traditionally,
      molecular diffusion has been studied in biological systems using
     fluorescence fluctuation correlation spectroscopy (FCS), a confocal
   technique. There is some concern that in FCS the diffusion of molecules
          is affected by the confocal beam. We plan to combine our
    single-molecule full-field imaging apparatus with a confocal beam to
       help elucidate the effect of light-forces on single fluorescent
               molecules in embedded in biological membranes.

      Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy Oxidative and
     radiation damage to biological tissues result in formation of free
      radicals and these paramagnetic centers can be quantified by EPR
   spectroscopy. NIST is one of the leaders in applying this technique to
   measurement of low levels of radiation doses in bone, tooth enamel and
     dentin. In a collaboration with Russian scientists and the National
   Cancer Institute we are developing measurement methods to determine the
    radiation doses to residents near major nuclear facilities in the old
     Soviet Union. Research is focused on improving the sensitivity and
     accuracy to the level that the method can be a quantitative tool in
     radiation epidemiology. The weak signal from the irradiated hydroxy
   apatite is confounded by signals from other organic free radicals, and
   sample preparation techniques and instrumentation must be substantially
                  improved to measure environmental doses.

   National Institute of Standards and Technology - NIST Home NIST Physics
   Laboratory Home Pages designed and maintained by the Office of ECSED.
   Inquiries or comments: www@physics.nist.gov.
   Online: February 2001
