http://flightprojects.msfc.nasa.gov/fd32.html


        Flight Projects logo
        FD 32
        Payload Operations Directors Group


   Home

   FD 30

        Mission:

        Payload Operations Control Room photo The POD Office provides payload
        operations and integration leaders for Space Shuttle and Space Station
        flights. The Office develops and provides certified Payload Operations
        Directors for all mission phases with responsibilities that include
        leading the Payload Operations Integration Team in all aspects of
        planning, training, and integration of increment preparation and
        real-time payload operations.

        Responsibilities: Payload Operations Control Room, artists concept

        Preflight activities include assessments of payload mission
        capabilities and requirements, payload objectives and priorities,
        operational suitability and safety, flight design and timeline content,
        flight control team training requirements, and overall increment
        preparation readiness.

        The Office develops flight techniques and payload regulations to
        support generic as well as specific mission objectives.

        The Office chairs the Payload Operations Technique panel, the NASA
        Payload Operations Control Board, the Multilateral Payload Operations
        Control Board, the Payload Operations Datafile Control Board, and the
        Payload Operations and Integration Working Group with participation
        from all payload operations elements.

        The Office develops Flight Rule inputs to the Flight Rules Control
        Board, and serves as a voting member of the Board. In addition, the
        Office provides the payload operations and integration representative
        to the MOD Flight Readiness Review process.

        The Office provides detailed reviews of proposed increment payload
        procedures, plans, and techniques as well as increment payload issues,
        establishes the appropriate action or procedure, and/or provides
        recommendations to the programs with respect to the payload operation
        in question.

        The Office is the Center's point-of-contact for payload operations
        issues and policy development. Additionally, the Office provides the
        Payload Operations integration function with respect to Space Shuttle
        and ISS changes assuring an integrated Payload Operations position on
        critical topics and program changes.

        The Office provides the integrated Certification of Flight Readiness
        (CoFR) input to the Flight Projects Directorate (FPD) Director and to
        the ISS Payload Program Office.

        Goals:

        The POD Office goals are to:

          Safely operate and maintain the ISS payload complement to support
          successful mission execution.

          Provide the leadership to build an integrated payload operations
          team. Coordinate the utilization of ISS such that the research
          community has a voice into the operations of the vehicle.

          Demonstrate technical excellence by effectively establishing the
          payload operations baseline.

          Define the program payload operations agenda, schedule, and critical
          milestones.

          Ensure effective interfaces with all International Partners for
          payload operations and integration.

          Serve as the single point of authority for all payload operations to
          the ISS Flight Director Provide leadership to the overall planning
          and development of premission payload flight operations for the
          Payload Mission Manager.

          Serve as the primary interface to the JSC Flight Operations
          organizations, represent the Payload Mission Manager in Payload
          Flight Operations.

          Direct the Payload Operations Team in operations exercises.

          Provide leadership and technical expertise in operations analysis,
          development and planning for future programs, as assigned.
