http://www.cdva.ca.gov/registry/default.asp


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   CDVA Home
   About us
   Cal-Vet Home Loans
   Veterans Homes
   Veterans Services
   Women Veterans
   Veterans Memorial
   Vets License Plates
   California Veterans Board
   Homes for Sale
   News from CDVA
   Employment Opportunities
   Links to Other Sites
   Site Map
   CDVA Seal and Link to CDVA Home Page



   Veterans Memorials Survey



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   California Veterans Memorial Registry


                  The California Veterans Memorial Registry

   Presently, there are hundreds of veterans memorials situated throughout
   various locations within California. These monuments range in size and
      description from smaller, roadside dedications to the much larger
       structures, such as buildings and bridges. To date, there is no
          comprehensive record of these memorials within the state.

     Signage of Senate Bill 1635 (Chapter 392, 2000), Veterans Memorial
   Registry, authored by Senator Schiff, changes all that with creation of
   a statewide registry. Pursuant to this bill, the California Department
    of Veterans Affairs is responsible for establishing this registry and
   making it publicly accessible on the Department website. This registry
    will list the location and condition of all known veterans memorials
     within the State of California, furthering tribute to all those who
                  fought and died for our nation's freedom.

    The Department is now in the process of collecting the requisite data
    for inclusion in this registry. As SB 1635 provided for no additional
    Departmental funding or staff for this project, we hope to enlist the
       aid of all cities, counties, veterans organizations and private
   individuals throughout the state in gathering this information. We are
       asking for your help in identifying all known memorials within
    California. These include, but are not limited to, statues, plaques,
              groves, parks, highways, bridges, and buildings.

     You will find link below to an easy-to-complete survey form for the
      purposes of identifying these commemorative structures. We would
   greatly appreciate your taking the time to print, complete and send the
      survey to the address indicated. A separate survey form for each
    memorial will be required. To ensure accuracy, please provide as much
    relevant information as possible. Thank you very much for your help.

                          Download the survey form

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
