http://www.ussc.gov/research.htm

   [ISMAP:namebar.gif]-Link to other pages

  United States Sentencing Commission

                                  Publications

   View additional publications in Reports to Congress

   Bullet View the Commission's 2000-2001 Guide to Publications &
   Resources (.PDF) This catalog contains a comprehensive list and brief
   summary of available U.S. Sentencing Commission publications,
   documents, and resources. View subject index.

   Annual Reports and Statistical Sourcebooks

   Bullet The 2000 Annual Report presents an overview of major Commission
   activities and accomplishments for fiscal year 2000. See the
   Commission's 2000 Sourcebook of Federal Sentencing Statistics for
   descriptive figures, tables, and charts, and selected district,
   circuit, and national sentencing data.

   Bullet The 1999 Annual Report presents an overview of major Commission
   activities and accomplishments for fiscal year 1999. See the
   Commission's 1999 Sourcebook of Federal Sentencing Statistics for
   descriptive figures, tables, and charts, and selected district,
   circuit, and national sentencing data.

   Bullet The 1998 Annual Report presents an overview of major Commission
   activities and accomplishments for fiscal year 1998. See the
   Commission's 1998 Sourcebook of Federal Sentencing Statistics for
   descriptive figures, tables, and charts, and selected district,
   circuit, and national sentencing data.

   Bullet The 1997 Annual Report presents an overview of major Commission
   activities and accomplishments for fiscal year 1997. See the
   Commission's 1997 Sourcebook of Federal Sentencing Statistics for
   descriptive figures, tables, and charts, and selected district,
   circuit, and national sentencing data.

   Bullet The 1996 Annual Report presents an overview of major Commission
   activities and accomplishments for fiscal year 1996. See the
   Commission's inaugural edition 1996 Sourcebook of Federal Sentencing
   Statistics for descriptive figures, tables, and charts, and selected
   district, circuit, and national sentencing data.

   Bullet United States Sentencing Commission - 1995 Annual Report The
   1995 Annual Report reviews the activities and accomplishments of the
   United States Sentencing Commission for fiscal year 1995. The report
   also includes descriptive statistics on implementation of the
   sentencing guidelines by judicial district, circuit, and across the
   nation.

   Research Products and Special Projects

   Bullet Proceedings from the Symposium on Federal Sentencing Policy for
   Economic Crimes and New Technology Crimes (October 12-13, 2000). The
   purposes of this symposium were to discuss sentencing policy for
   economic crimes generally, and to discuss the impact of new technology
   on investigating, prosecuting, and sentencing economic crimes. Also
   available are the proceeding's video recordings.

   Bullet Report of the United States Sentencing Commission to the
   Judicial Conference of the United States (September 1999). This 5-page
   report updates developments regarding commissioner vacancies and the
   ongoing work of the agency. (.PDF)

   Bullet Report of the United States Sentencing Commission to the
   Judicial Conference of the United States (March 1999). This seven-page
   report outlines Commission activities and developments regarding
   Commissioner vacancies, recent guideline amendments, the ongoing work
   of the agency, and the increase in reported cases during the past
   fiscal year of 1998. (.PDF)

   Bullet A two-hour, public briefing (February 4, 1999) included staff
   presentations on the following topics :Summary of Proposed Amendments &
   Issues for Comment, No Electronic Theft Act - Policy Development Team
   Report, Economic Crimes, Sexual Predators, Firearms Issues, and Longer
   Term Issues. Briefing Agenda.

   Bullet Loss Definition Field Testing Report (10/98). In the summer of
   1998, the Commission worked with the federal judiciary to field-test
   the Commission's proposed definition of "loss" for use in the theft and
   fraud guidelines. This report discusses the proposal, analyzes the
   results of the field test, and summarizes the comments made at the
   subsequent debriefing session attended by participants. (.PDF)

   Bullet The Year In Review: 1997-1998. (July 1998) This ten-page report
   highlights the accomplishments of the U.S. Sentencing Commission during
   1997-1998. The document describes recent achievements in areas
   including policy development; resolution of circuit conflicts;
   appellate review of guideline departures; legislative initiatives;
   training and education activities; research studies; and identifies
   areas for future study. (.PDF)

   Bullet Substantial Assistance: An Empirical Yardstick Gauging Equity in
   Current Federal Policy and Practice (January 1998). This exploratory
   research report examines the guidelines' "substantial assistance"
   policy statement in light of the guidelines' overall statutory goal of
   fair and honest sentencing. The study focused on whether different
   districts' policies and procedures were consistent and whether similar
   defendants were receiving similar sentence reductions for providing
   similar assistance. (.PDF)

   Bullet Research Bulletin - Just Punishment: Public Perceptions and the
   Federal Sentencing Guidelines (3/97) (.PDF) In this study, more than
   1,700 citizens throughout the U.S. provided their opinions on “just
   punishment” and crime seriousness issues. This paper describes the
   survey and its methodology, comparing public attitudes with the
   corresponding sentencing guideline ranges for four selected federal
   offenses: drug trafficking, bank robbery, immigration offenses, and
   fraud.

   Bullet National Sample Survey: Public Opinion on Sentencing Federal
   Crimes (Berk & Rossi Report) This monograph reports the findings of a
   national survey commissioned by the USSC. Conducted in 1994 through
   face-to-face interviews, this study sought to determine how the
   American public would sentence persons convicted of crimes under the
   Federal Criminal Code. This report on “just punishment” compares the
   hypothetical sentences with those recommended in the guidelines.

   Bullet Corporate Crime Symposium (Sept. 7-8, 1995) Proceedings Book
   (.PDF) This volume contains the proceedings of the Commission’s second
   symposium in a series on crime and punishment. This symposium on
   corporate crime focused on the ways in which companies, industries, and
   enforcement officials have responded to the organizational sentencing
   guidelines’ incentives and other changes in the enforcement landscape
   that encourage businesses to develop strong compliance programs.

   News Updates

   Bullet Sentencing Commission Press Releases This page lists Commission
   press releases. The press releases cover such topics as: child sex
   offenses, money laundering, “date-rape” drug offenses, cocaine
   sentencing, telemarketing fraud, and methamphetamine penalties.

   Bullet Guide Lines - Commission Newsletters, the Commission’s periodic
   newsletter, provides information on current Commission activities,
   research findings, proposed guideline amendments, training
   opportunities, and guideline application and legal issues. Issues
   currently available include: February 1995, June 1995, January 1996,
   August 1996, June 1997, January 1998, January 1999, February 2000, May
   2000, July 2001, and October 2001.

   Staff and Advisory Working Group Reports

   Bullet Nuclear, Biological, and Chemical Weapons Policy Team - Report
   to the Commission (December 4, 2000)

   Bullet Sentencing Federal Sexual Offenders: Protection of Children from
   Sexual Predators Act of 1998 (February 14, 2000) The Sexual Predators
   Act Policy Team prepared this report to assist the Commission in
   developing possible responses to directives contained within the
   Protection of Children from Sexual Predators Act of 1998 (Pub. L.
   105-314).

   Bullet Cellular Telephone Cloning Final Report (January 25, 2000). The
   Economic Crimes Policy Team addressed the development of options for
   implementing the directives contained in the Wireless Telephone
   Protection Act (Pub. L. No. 105-172; April 24, 1998). The report
   details the background, analysis, findings and policy options
   identified by the team. (.PDF)

   Bullet Sentencing for the Possession or Use of Firearms During a Crime
   (January 6, 2000). This report of the Firearms Policy Team discusses
   possible Commission responses to Pub. L. No. 105-386 and other issues
   pertaining to 18 U.S.C. § 924(c). (.PDF)

   Bullet Identity Theft Final Report (December 15, 1999). This is the
   final report of the Economic Crimes Policy Team in response to the
   Identity Theft and Deterrence Act of 1998. The report contains an
   executive summary and numerous appendices (.PDF)

   Bullet Methamphetamine - Final Report of the Methamphetamine Policy
   Team (November 1999). This is the final report of the Methamphetamine
   Policy Team regarding implementation of the Methamphetamine Trafficking
   Penalty Enhancement Act of 1998. (.PDF)

   Bullet No Electronic Theft Act Topics
     * No Electronic Theft Act - Policy Development Team Report (February
       1999) (.PDF)- Also available: The Appendix containing the public
       comment, specific proposals previously published for comment, and a
       notice of request for public comment. Contact the Commission's
       Publications Request Line at 202-502-4568, or by e-mail at
       pubaffairs@ussc.gov)

     * No Electronic Theft Act Hearing of May 12, 1999: Testimony of the
       United States Sentencing Commission Before the Courts and
       Intellectual Property Subcommittee of the House Judiciary (.PDF)

     * Letter from Interim Staff Director Timothy B. McGrath to the
       Honorable Howard Coble, Chairman of Courts and Intellectual
       Property Subcommittee, House Judiciary Committee (.PDF) - This
       document clarifies several issues concerning sentencing guidelines
       for intellectual property offenses that were raised during the
       course of the May 12, 1999, NET Act Hearing.

   Bullet Telemarketing Fraud Working Group: Report to the Commission
   (January 1998) A Commission staff working group conducted a detailed
   study of telemarketing fraud offenses in conjunction with the
   Commission's multi-year comprehensive assessment of the fraud and
   related guidelines. (.PDF)

   Bullet Manslaughter Working Group Report to the Commission (December
   15, 1997). This report reviews the Voluntary and Involuntary
   Manslaughter guidelines, §§2A1.3 and 2A1.4, with the objective of
   assisting the Commission in determining whether the current guideline
   penalties are appropriate relative to other violent offenses. (.PDF)

   Bullet Report from Advisory Group on Environmental Sanctions (.PDF)
   (12/93) This 1993 draft of proposed sanctions for organizations
   convicted of environmental offenses was prepared by an independent
   Advisory Working Group on Environmental Offenses. The proposal concerns
   the determination of aggravating factors in sentencing, organizational
   commitment to environmental compliance, and probationary periods for
   organizations.

   Bullet Food and Drug Working Group Final Report (2/95) This update to a
   February 1994 report includes an overview of the food and drug
   guideline, §2N2.1, and the most commonly prosecuted crimes sentenced
   under it. The report provides a description and analysis of food and
   drug cases involving individuals sentenced under §2N2.1 in fiscal years
   1991-93, and describes food and drug cases involving organizational
   defendants sentenced under pre-guidelines law.

   Bullet Money Laundering Working Group Report (2/95) This follow-up to
   an October 1992 report reviews the history of the Commission’s
   consideration of the money laundering guidelines, summarizes the
   earlier report, and updates case law and other relevant information
   available since the 1992 report.

   Bullet Money Laundering Working Group Summary (2/95) This report
   summary reviews findings from the Money Laundering Working Group
   Reports relating to the operation of guidelines §2S1.1 and §2S1.2.

   Bullet Guidelines Simplification Draft Reports

   Bullet Report Summary - Computer Fraud Working Group (9/93) (.PDF) The
   Computer Fraud Working Group studied the effectiveness of the fraud and
   related guidelines on computer fraud offenses. This report summary
   presents an empirical study of defendants convicted under 18 U.S.C. §
   1030, as well as the working group's summary of findings and
   recommendations.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Return

   United States Sentencing Commission
