http://www.tasc.dot.gov/building.html

                   TASC Today Search


                                       __________
                              Department Of Transportation

   Home Archives Online Directory Service Request


   Building Access Services

   Building Security Surveys

   Card Access Systems

   Guard Services

   Security Alarm Systems

   Security Systems Acquisition, Installation and Monitoring Services

   Workplace Violence Awareness Briefings

   Investigations

BUILDING SECURITY

   Security Operations provides the following services to ensure the
   safety of all DOT employees, contractors, and visitors in our three
   Headquarters Buildings. To speak to any of our technical experts about
   these services, please refer to the contacts and phone numbers
   provided.

Building Security Surveys

   A team consisting of technical and law enforcement personnel will
   survey your building or facility and conduct an analysis of operational
   requirements to determine what type and the extent of physical
   protection is required for that facility. A survey consists of a review
   of the following elements:
     * Guard Force Support
     * Alarms (local, remote or silent)
     * Lock and Key Systems
     * Camera Installation
     * Protective Lighting
     * Card Access Control

   For more information, please contact Ron Vestal at (202) 366-6997.

Card Access Systems

   TASC Security Operations uses the newest security technologies. Our
   card access systems provide for positive entry control of persons
   entering your work area. A card reader is installed outside of a locked
   door - an individual with an access card simply swipes the card across
   the reader, and the door unlocks momentarily. This system provides a
   computerized printout of all persons entering a secure area. Cards can
   be preset for specific doors, limiting access to only those authorized
   persons who you want to gain entry.

   For more information, please contact Ron Vestal at (202) 366-6997.

Guard Services

   We have an experienced contracting officer who can provide valuable
   insight on any and all issues related to security guard activities. We
   review security arrangements for buildings and facilities and conduct
   surveys to determine the number of guards and guard posts needed.
   Contract guards perform a variety of duties, such as checking
   identification cards, checking unlocked doors, patrolling facilities,
   and responding to calls for service and alarms.

   To obtain more information about guard services, please call Bill Viney
   at (202) 366-2417.

Security Alarm Systems

   A system of alarms can be installed in your facility to protect against
   intruders, fires, and carbon dioxide. Alarms can be monitored by an
   in-house guard force or routed directly to an alarm company or local
   police department. For more information, please contact Ron Vestal at
   (202) 366-6997.

Security Systems Acquisition, Installation and Monitoring Services

   We install permanent perimeter and interior camera security systems
   supported by video recording to protect your facility. The systems are
   user-friendly, and training on their application and use can be
   provided. Good lighting is also very important and one of the most
   inexpensive security enhancements we can provide. Illuminated areas
   will immediately make your facility safer. There is a variety of
   lighting systems that can be installed that will bring satisfactory
   results.

   For more information, please contact Ron Vestal at (202) 366-6997.

Workplace Violence Awareness Briefings

   In today's work environment, some employees can exhibit hostile and
   inappropriate behavior. We can help your organization by providing
   consultation and conducting briefings on workplace violence issues. We
   coordinate with your human resources staff and your Employee Assistance
   Program, performing as a team to avert or resolve these problems.

   To obtain more information or to schedule a Workplace Violence
   Awareness Briefing with one of our Special Agents, please call (202)
   366-4677, between the hours of 8:00AM - 5:30PM.

Investigations

   Our agents conduct independent investigations and make recommendations
   to assist your organization in resolving issues in a variety of
   criminal and administrative matters.

   For more information, please contact Lou Widawski at (202) 366-1789.

   To report suspected incidents of fraud, waste, or abuse, contact DOT's
   Office of Inspector General at (800) 424-9071

   Home | Archives| On-line Directory | Service Request | Search

   TASC
   Nassif Building
   400 Seventh Street, SW
   Washington, D.C. 20590-0001
   Voice: 202-366-4747 TTY: FAX:
