http://www.arserrc.gov/naa/

   NAA Administrative Section Links

   green ball image Area Director's Office
             green ball image Ethics
           green ball image RMIS
           green ball image Statistician

   green ball image Area Administrative      Office
            green ball image Grants and              Agreements
            green ball image Outreach
            green ball image Personnel
   green ball image Budget and Fiscal
            green ball image Travel
   green ball image Engineering
   green ball image Information       Technology
   green ball image Procurement and       Property:
            green ball image Contracting
           green ball image Property
   green ball image Safety, Health and
          Environmental

   green ball image Research Locations
   green ball image EEO/Civil Rights

   The North Atlantic Area (NAA) joins the rest of the nation in mourning
                all those affected by the events of Sept. 11.



                                 [ars1.gif]

                             NORTH ATLANTIC AREA
                                 image: line

   The North Atlantic Area encompasses eleven research locations from
   Maine to West Virginia. The Area Director provides executive leadership
   of the Area's scientific program and management of personnel and
   infrastructure required by the program. This is accomplished by: 1)
   Participation with the Administrator and Deputy Administrators in
   determining, prioritizing, and developing the research programs. 2)
   Staffing, implementing, coordinating and evaluating accomplishments of
   those programs. 3) Leadership and operational accountability within the
   Area for all programs and related activities, workforce safety, and
   environmental protection. This leadership responsibility includes
   operational planning, direction, and evaluation of research to
   implement programs in the Research Management Units. The Area Director
   participates in development of a complex national strategic plan for
   agricultural research in the Agency, and assures the plan is executed
   with coordination, cooperation, and integration of research with
   associated land-grant organizations, other Federal agencies, public
   entities, and private and international sector institutions. For more
   information about the Area Director's Office, click here.

   The Area Administrative Office provides a comprehensive administrative
   management program to support the North Atlantic Area's
   multidisciplinary research programs. The Area's administrative
   management program encompasses the full range of functions including
   personnel and resource management; budget formulation, execution and
   financial management; foreign and domestic travel management services;
   procurement and contracting program; extramural research agreements
   program; real property management, safety, occupational health and
   environmental protection programs; and automated data processing
   support services. For more information about the Area Administrative
   Office, click here.

                                 image: line
                      The Area Office is housed at the
                   Eastern Regional Research Center (ERRC)

                      Directions (link to ERRC Website)
                             Weather link image

          image: line


   Nondiscrimination Policy    USDA Privacy Policy   System Usage Policy
             Endorsement Disclaimer

                     Home                         Search
                                     top

     Questions and comments to: webmaster-naa@naa.ars.usda.gov      Last
                              updated: 06/18/01
               We are: http://www.arserrc.gov/naa/default.htm

      USDA Logo and Link            NAA Flashes        Search        Site
   Index         Home        Feedback        Contact Us            REE
   Logo and Link

              For a text-only version of this page, click here.
               Link to USDA, REE, ARS, NAA Section 508 Notice
