http://dioxin.abag.ca.gov/projectupdate.htm

                               [pagetop.gif]
                           [USEMAP:pagemenu.gif]

                     Pollution Prevention Project Update

   The final Screening Evaluation of Dioxins Pollution Prevention Options
        was adopted by the Dioxins Task Force, a group of staff level
    representatives of local agencies, at the September 12, 2001 meeting.

        This report reviews options that could be considered by local
      government agencies in the San Francisco Bay Area to prevent the
   formation of dioxins. The report does not necessarily reflect the views
   of ABAG policy bodies, and no official endorsement should be inferred.
     Actions evaluated need prior approval by local jurisdictions before
                               implementation.

    Download the report from the following link - Screening Evaluation of
             Dioxins Pollution Prevention Options (1.04MB PDF).

     To learn more about the public outreach efforts of the Dioxins Task
         Force, download the Progress Report Memo: Report on Public
                      Participation Process (58K PDF).

    The following pages idenitify the attendees and speakers at the April
   2001 public meeting along with a list of persons who submitted written
                           comments on the report:
                         Attendees (April 26, 2001)
                          Speakers (April 26, 2001)
                              Written Comments

    At the September and October meetings, the Task Force agreed to move
       forward and implement three dioxins pollution prevention pilot
                            projects. These are:
     * diesel alternatives
     * purchasing policies for dioxins-free paper and PVC alternative
       products
     * medical waste management

      Over the next year, local governments will oversee the design and
     implementation of these pilot projects. Information on the projects
    will be included in the Task Force meeting minutes, these are listed
   HERE. For additional information, you may E-mail JenniferK@abag.ca.gov.



    For more information go to Message Board and sign up for our Listserv
                           for up to date notices.


                             [transparent.gif]
