http://www.riskcenter.doe.gov/dsp_privacy.cfm

   Home

   What is Risk
   Programs & Services
   Technical Information
   Information Exchange
   Newsletter
   Calendar
   Risk Web Sites

   Center for Risk Excellence Privacy Policy

SECURITY NOTICE

   This web site is part of a Federal computer system used to accomplish
   Federal functions. The Department of Energy monitors this web site for
   security purposes to ensure it remains available to all users and to
   protect information in the system. By accessing this web site, you are
   expressly consenting to these monitoring activities.

   Unauthorized attempts to defeat or circumvent security features, to use
   the system for other than intended purposes, to deny service to
   authorized users, to access, obtain, alter, damage, or destroy
   information, or otherwise to interfere with the system or its operation
   are prohibited. Evidence of such acts may be disclosed to law
   enforcement authorities and result in criminal prosecution under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-474) and the National
   Information Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-294),
   (18 U.S.C. 1030), or other applicable criminal laws.

GENERAL DISCLAIMER

   This system is made available by an agency of the United States
   Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency
   thereof, nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or
   implied, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility for the
   accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information, apparatus,
   product or process disclosed, or represents that its use would not
   infringe privately owned rights. Reference herein to any specific
   commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark,
   manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply
   its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States
   Government or any agency thereof. The views and opinions of originators
   expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the
   United States Government or any agency thereof.

PRIVACY NOTICE

   We collect no personal information about you when you visit a DOE web
   site, unless otherwise stated, unless you choose to provide this
   information to us. However, we collect and store certain information
   automatically. What we collect and store automatically is:
     * The Internet Protocol (IP) address of the domain from which you
       access the Internet (e.g., 123.456.789.012) whether yours
       individually or provided as a proxy by your Internet Service
       Provider (ISP)
     * the date and time you access our site
     * the pages you peruse (recorded by the text and graphics files that
       compose that page)
     * the type of web browser you use
     * and, the Internet address of the web site from which you linked
       directly to our site.

   We use the summary statistics to help us make our site more useful to
   visitors, such as assessing what information is of most and least
   interest to visitors, and for other purposes such as determining the
   site's technical design specifications and identifying system
   performance or problem areas.

   Detailed statistical information is NOT shared with third parties,
   except when required by Law Enforcement investigation. Summarized
   statistical information may be provided to third parties.

COMMENTS SENT BY E-MAIL

   You may choose to provide us with personal information, as in an e-mail
   message containing your comments or questions. We use this information
   to improve our service to you or to respond to your request. There are
   times when your message is forwarded, as e-mail, to other Department of
   Energy employees and/or contractors who may be better able to help you.
   Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, we do not share
   our e-mail with any other outside organizations.
   You are using an unrecognized browser. Download one of the following
   browsers for the best results:
   Internet Explorer 4.0
   Netscape Communicator 4.5
   Home | Search | Feedback | What's New | Calendar | Newsletter | Related
   Sites
   What is Risk? | Technical Information | Programs & Services |
   Information Exchange
   Security, Disclaimer, Privacy
   Last Modified: 08/08/2001 07:33:12 AM
