http://eospso.gsfc.nasa.gov/eos_homepage/description.html


                        Home, Feedback, Search Links
                        Main Sections Navigation Bar
         Where you are:   For Educators  :   EOS Program Description
           Earth Observering System Project Science Office Banner

   EOS Program Description

   Since its creation in 1958, NASA has been studying the Earth and its
   changing environment by observing the atmosphere, oceans, land, ice,
   and snow, and their influence on climate and weather. We now realize
   that the key to gaining a better understanding of the global
   environment is exploring how the Earth's systems of air, land, water,
   and life interact with each other. This approach -- called Earth System
   Science -- blends together fields like meteorology, oceanography,
   biology, and atmospheric science.
   In 1991, NASA launched a more comprehensive program to study the Earth
   as an environmental system, now called the Earth Science Enterprise. By
   using satellites and other tools to intensively study the Earth, we
   hope to expand our understanding of how natural processes affect us,
   and how we might be affecting them. Such studies will yield improved
   weather forecasts, tools for managing agriculture and forests,
   information for fishermen and local planners, and, eventually, the
   ability to predict how the climate will change in the future.
   The Earth Science Enterprise has three main components: a series of
   Earth-observing satellites, an advanced data system, and teams of
   scientists who will study the data. Key areas of study include clouds;
   water and energy cycles; oceans; chemistry of the atmosphere; land
   surface; water and ecosystem processes; glaciers and polar ice sheets;
   and the solid Earth.
   Phase I of the Earth Science Enterprise had been comprised of focused,
   free-flying satellites, Space Shuttle missions, and various airborne
   and ground-based studies. Phase II began in December of 1999 with the
   launch of the first Earth Observing System (EOS) satellite, Terra
   (formerly AM-1) and Landsat 7. EOS is the first observing system to
   offer integrated measurements of the Earth's processes. It consists of
   a science component and a data system supporting a coordinated series
   of polar-orbiting and low-inclination satellites for long-term global
   observations of the land surface, biosphere, solid Earth, atmosphere,
   and oceans. We have initiated an era of unprecedented observational
   capability for understanding the planet.
   Just as the first weather and communications satellites fundamentally
   changed our way of thinking about those fields, so the elements of the
   Earth Science Enterprise will expand our perspective of the global
   environment and climate. Working together with our partners around the
   world, we are well on our way to improving our knowledge of the Earth
   and using that knowledge to the benefit of all humanity.

      Home Icon HOME      Search Icon SEARCH      Feedback Icon FEEDBACK
