http://qecc.pnl.gov/presentations/13-12/pnnl_report_on_uses_of_ansi_n13.12-1999.pdf

   PNNL-13484 Uses of ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999 "Surface and Volume
   Radioactivity Standards for Clearance" and Comparison with Existing
   Standards P.S. Stansbury D.J. Strom April 2001 Prepared for the U.S.
   Department of Energy under Contract DE-AC06-76RLO1830 PNNL-13484 Uses
   of ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999, "Surface and Volume Radioactivity Standards
   for Clearance" and Comparison with Existing Standards P.S. Stansbury
   D.J. Strom April 2001 PNNL Project No. 14647 DOE Project No. 01-ES-592
   Prepared for the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract DE-AC06-76RLO
   1830 Risk Analysis and Health Protection Pacific Northwest National
   Laboratory Richland, Washington 99352 Disclaimer This report was
   prepared as an account of work sponsored by an agency of the United
   States Government. Neither the United States Government nor any agency
   thereof, nor Battelle Memorial Institute, nor any of their employees,
   makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any legal liability
   or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any
   information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents
   that its use would not infringe privately owned rights. Reference
   herein to any specific commercial product, process, or service by trade
   name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily
   constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the
   United States Government or any agency thereof, or Battelle Memorial
   Institute. The views and opinions of authors expressed herein do not
   necessarily state or reflect those of the United States Government or
   any agency thereof. PACIFIC NORTHWEST NATIONAL LABORATORY operated by
   BATTELLE for the UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY under Contract
   DE-AC06-76RLO 1830 Executive Summary In August 1999, the American
   National Standards Institute (ANSI) approved a standard for clearance
   of materials contaminated with residual levels of radioactivity.
   "Clearance," as used in the standard, means the movement of material
   from the control of a regulatory agency to a use or disposition that
   has no further regulatory controls of any kind. The standard gives
   derived screening levels (DSLs) in Bq/g and Bq/cm2 for 50
   radionuclides. Items or materials with residual surface and volume
   radioactivity levels below the DSLs can be cleared, that is, managed,
   without regard to their residual radioactivity. Since federal agencies
   are to use voluntary industry standards developed by the private sector
   whenever possible, the standard should play an important role in the
   U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE's) regulatory process. The thrust of
   this report is to explain the standard, make observations on its
   usefulness to DOE, and explore uses of the standard within DOE
   facilities beyond the clearance of radioactive materials. The standard
   identifies a primary dose criterion of 10 µSv/y (1 mrem/y) total
   effective dose equivalent (TEDE) above background. Using this
   criterion, the standard assigns 50 radionuclides to one of four groups,
   0.1, 1, 10, or 100 Bq/g and Bq/cm2 for volume and surface DSLs,
   respectively. The grouping is done on the basis of conservative, but
   not worst-case, scenarios and with consideration of detectability and
   the "as low as reasonably achievable" (ALARA) principle. The DSLs are
   also presented in the traditional units of pCi/g and dpm/100 cm2,
   rounded off to one significant figure. It would be reasonable, prudent,
   and cost-effective for DOE to replace the values currently in Appendix
   D of 10 CFR 835, "Occupational Radiation Protection," and in Figure
   IV-1 in DOE Order 5400.5, Radiation Protection of the Public and the
   Environment, with the DSLs in ANSI/HPS N13.12- 1999. This action would
   ensure consistency between the operational and environmental radiation
   protection programs operated throughout DOE. The standard identifies a
   primary dose criterion of 10 µSv/y (1 mrem/y) TEDE above background.
   This value is not an absolute limit. The standard permits clearance of
   materials at a higher levels, justified on a case-by-case basis, when
   it can be ensured that exposures to multiple sources will be maintained
   ALARA and will provide an adequate margin of safety below the public
   does limit of 1 mSv/y (100 mrem/y) TEDE. The DOE sets the same primary
   dose limit of 1 mSv/y (100 mrem/y) for a member of the general public
   in many of its regulations. Thus, in using the DSLs in the standard for
   clearance or the other potential uses, DOE would have the flexibility
   to choose a different dose criterion, providing it could show that such
   level was consistent with the ALARA principle and would not lead to
   combined doses from multiple sources in excess of the DOE public dose
   limit. For example, a dose criterion of 250 µSv/y (25 mrem/y) would
   lead to a 25-Bq/g group containing all of the radionuclides in the
   1-Bq/g group in the standard. iii Potential benefits from using the
   ANSI N13.12-1999 standard in occupational radiation protection include:
   * use of a single surface contamination limit rather than separate
   limits for removable and total contamination as done today - The DSLs
   are less restrictive than the current total contamination limits, for
   all nuclides of significance to DOE operations and cleanup. They are
   much less restrictive than the current removable contamination limits.
   * "down-posting" of some current High Contamination Areas and
   "de-posting" of some current Contamination Areas, reducing the
   footprint of areas that must be managed as Controlled Areas - Using the
   DSLs in place of current values would have a remarkably beneficial
   impact on research laboratories where common biomedical tracers are
   used. * "field counting" of transuranic and 90Sr smear samples,
   expediting operational decisions based on survey results, thus saving
   time and money - In addition, "field counting" of smear samples would
   reduce the workload of counting laboratories Potential benefits from
   using the ANSI N13.12-1999 standard in environmental radiation
   protection include: * using the standard as a basis for defining "solid
   effluents," integrating the clearance process into the menu of options
   that the DOE has for managing its environmental cleanup and research
   missions - For two waste streams, metals and hazardous waste
   contaminated with radionuclides, DOE's current policy is based on
   "detectability" as the primary criterion. Using the risk-based
   consensus standard ANSI N13.12 could give the DOE a credible and valid
   basis for changing its current policy on these two important waste
   streams. * releasing, for ordinary disposal, materials with trace
   amounts of contamination throughout their volume - ANSI N13.12-1999
   provides a technical basis for treating materials with trace amounts of
   radioactive contamination throughout their volume as ordinary waste.
   Such a practice would help in the disposal of slightly contaminated
   soils and rubble from cleanup operations. It would also do much to make
   DOE national laboratories using tracer radionuclides for biomedical
   research more productive and cost-competitive. iv Acknowledgments The
   authors gratefully acknowledge the help of William E. Kennedy, Jr.,
   chairman and long-time member of the working group that prepared the
   ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999 standard. We believe his sharing of the history
   and philosophy behind the standard led us to a more cogent report. We
   also acknowledge the foresight of Jerome B. Martin, who identified the
   need for this report and initiated the project to prepare it, and the
   thoughtful review by Dr. Joel L. Rabovsky of the Office of Worker
   Protection Policy, whose comments increased the usefulness of the
   document to DOE and its contractors. The authors also acknowledge the
   help of James R. Weber, technical editor, in improving this document as
   we finalized it and Rose M. Watt, document designer, in preparing the
   final document. v vi Contents Executive Summary . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii Acknowledgments . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . v 1 Introduction . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 2 Synopsis
   of the ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999 Standard in the Context of Related
   Documents . . . . . . . . 2 2.1 Purpose and Scope . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 2.2 Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 2.3 Dose Criteria and Derived Screening
   Levels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . 4 2.4 Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . 5 2.5 Records . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . 5 2.6 References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . 6 3 Examination of the Derived Screening Levels for
   Radionuclides . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 4
   Potential Uses of the ANSI Clearance Standard . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 4.1 Derived
   Screening Levels Scalable to Other Dose Criteria . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 4.2 Direct Use in the Recycling and
   Disposal of Radioactively Contaminated Materials or Wastes at Cleanup
   Sites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 4.3 Disposal of Biomedical and
   Similar Research Laboratory Wastes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . 15 4.4 Use of the ANSI Screening Levels for Designating
   Contamination Areas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 4.5 Decreasing the
   Number and Frequency of Measurements of Surface Contamination in
   Workplace Environments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 4.6 Reduce
   or Eliminate the Need to Count Smears in a Counting Laboratory . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . 18 5 ANSI Standard as a Technical Basis for "Solid
   Effluents" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . 19 6 Conclusions and Recommendations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
   6.1 Conclusions and Recommendations Relevant to Both Occupational and
   Environmental Radiation Protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 6.2 Conclusions and
   Recommendations Relevant to Occupational Radiation Protection . . . . .
   . 21 6.3 Conclusions and Recommendations Relevant to Environmental
   Radiation Protection . . . . . 21 7 References . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 vii Figures 1 Entry to,
   Exit from, and Bypass of Regulation of Sources of Radiation Exposure .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 2 Comparison of 0.1 Bq/g or Bq/cm2 Group
   Shaded area is IAEA-recommended range and slim black line is Regulatory
   Guide 1.86 value. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . 8 3 Comparison of 1 Bq/g or Bq/cm2 Group  Shaded
   area is IAEA-recommended range and slim black line is Regulatory Guide
   1.86 value. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . 8 4 Comparison of 10 Bq/g or Bq/cm2 Group  Shaded area
   is IAEA-recommended range and slim black line is Regulatory Guide 1.86
   value. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . 9 5 Comparison of 100 Bq/g or Bq/cm2 Group  Shaded area is
   IAEA-recommended range and slim black line is Regulatory Guide 1.86
   value. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . 9 6 Distribution of Ratios of ANSI Screening Levels to 10
   CFR 835 Appendix D Total Surface Contamination Limits . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . 10 7 Ratio of ANSI Screening Levels to 10 CFR 835
   Removable Contamination Limits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 8 Ratio of ANSI Screening
   Level to DAC for 10 and 100 Groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . 12 9 Ratio of ANSI Screening Level to DAC for 0.1 and
   1 Groups . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   viii 1 Introduction In August 1999, the American National Standards
   Institute (ANSI) approved ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999, Surface and Volume
   Radioactivity Standards for Clearance (ANSI 1999; referred to here as
   "ANSI N13.12" or "the standard"). Publishing this standard culminated
   an effort begun in 1964. The stated purpose of the standard is to
   provide guidance for protecting the public and the environment from
   radiation exposure by specifying a primary radiation dose criterion and
   derived screening levels for the clearance of items that could contain
   radioactive material. The standard is a voluntary consensus standard
   developed by the ANSI-Accredited HPS N13 Committee. ANSI has designated
   the Health Physics Society (HPS) as the secretariat for this standards
   committee. At the time the standard was approved, the committee
   consisted of representatives of 22 organizations and 7 individual
   members. The organizations represented included: * seven government
   agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) and the U.S.
   Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) * two labor organizations * the
   American Chemical Society, the American Industrial Hygiene Association,
   the Health Physics Society, the American College of Occupational and
   Environmental Medicine, other professional societies, and * groups
   representing the mining, manufacturing, electronics, and nuclear
   industries. The objectives of this report are a) to identify potential
   uses for the standard above and beyond those in the standard itself and
   b) to make recommendations concerning these potential uses. To achieve
   this objective, this report * provides a synopsis of the standard in
   the context of other guidance on release of contaminated items and
   materials * discusses clearance of sources from regulation * compares
   and contrasts the standard's screening values for over 50 radionuclides
   with those of other guidance and standards * presents various uses of
   the standard DOE may wish to consider above and beyond the use implied
   by the standard's title, and * provides conclusions and recommendations
   based on the findings of the report. 1 2 Synopsis of the ANSI/HPS
   N13.12-1999 Standard in the Context of Related Documents The standard
   consists of 8 pages of text plus 47 pages of appendices that include 3
   pages of normative references and 8 pages of informative references as
   well as some 14 pages of tables. The standard itself consists of 6
   sections: purpose and scope, definitions, dose criteria and derived
   screening levels, implementation, records, and cited references. Each
   of these sections is discussed below, with explanatory background from
   other documents to cover gaps and implicit knowledge in the standard.
   2.1 Purpose and Scope The scope of the standard excludes naturally
   occurring radioactive material, radioactive material on or in
   foodstuffs, process gasses and liquids (effluents, presumably), release
   of land or soil intended for agricultural purposes, and release of
   licensed or regulated sites or facilities for unrestricted use. 2.2
   Definitions This section of the standard defines concepts needed to
   understand the scope of the standard, some of which do not appear in
   the standard. To understand clearance, one must consider entry of
   radioactive materials into the regulatory arena, exit of radioactive
   materials from the regulatory arena, and bypass of the regulatory arena
   (Figure 1). Arena of Regulatory Control Gaseous Uses of Sources &
   Effluents Sources of Do Conduct of Practices Rad. Exposure sources need
   to Yes Liquid Introduced by a be regulated? Effluents Practice Land
   Clearance No Disposal of Solids Radiation Doses to Public Individuals
   Exemption of Practice Possible Existing Sources of Do doses Yes
   Radiation need to be Intervention Exposure reduced? No Exclusion Figure
   1. Entry to, Exit from, and Bypass of Regulation of Sources of
   Radiation Exposure 2 Terms such as "exemption" and "exclusion," used in
   Figure 1 and discussed below, have very specific connotations in the
   context of the ANSI Standard. Such terms may have different meanings
   when used in 10 CFR 820 "Procedural Rules for DOE Nuclear Activities,"
   in 10 CFR 835, "Occupational Radiation Protection," and in other
   regulations. "Background radiation" as used in the standard has a
   meaning slightly different from the definition in 10 CFR 835. Clearance
   is defined in the standard as "the removal of items or materials that
   contain residual levels of radioactive materials within authorized
   practices from any further [regulatory] control of any kind." Although
   not defined in the standard, it is important to understand the notion
   of a practice as introduced by the International Commission on
   Radiological Protection (ICRP) and subsequently modified. According to
   the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), a practice is any human
   activity that introduces additional sources of exposure or exposure
   pathways or extends exposure to additional people or modifies the
   network of exposure pathways from existing sources, so as to increase
   the exposure or the likelihood of exposure of people or the number of
   people exposed (IAEA 1996b). Examples of practices include production
   of electricity with nuclear energy, medical diagnosis using x rays, and
   use of radionuclide sources in smoke detectors. Exclusion is defined in
   the standard as "the designation by a regulatory authority that the
   magnitude or likelihood of an exposure is essentially unamenable to
   control...." The examples given are cosmic radiation at the earth's
   surface, exposure from 40K in the body, and natural radionuclides in
   raw materials. Exemption is "the designation by a regulatory authority
   that specified uses of radioactive materials or sources of radiation
   are not subject to regulatory control because the radiation risks to
   individuals and the collective radiological impact are sufficiently
   low." One can think of the collection of all U.S. laws and regulations
   as an "arena of regulatory control," represented by the black rectangle
   in Figure 1. Thus, excluded exposures are those exposures that are
   never in the regulatory sphere, such as cosmic ray exposure to people
   on the surface. Exempted practices are those that could be regulated,
   but the regulatory authorities choose not to do so, such as not
   controlling the uranium in dental porcelain after dentures are
   manufactured. Cleared materials are those that move from being
   regulated to being unregulated. An example is NRC licensees disposing
   of radionuclides in the sanitary sewer as permitted under 10 CFR 20.
   Background is defined in the standard as "natural radiation or
   radioactive material in the environment," but not including "naturally
   occurring radioactive material that has been technologically enhanced."
   3 2.3 Dose Criteria and Derived Screening Levels The standard's primary
   dose criterion is 10 µSv/y (1 mrem/y) total effective dose equivalent
   (TEDE) above background. Annex A to the standard, an "informative"
   section, reviews U.S. regulations and international guidance and
   discusses the rationale for the primary dose criterion. The strongest
   points in favor of this dose level are that 1) it is in the range of 10
   to 100 µSv/y (1 to 10 mrem/y) given by the IAEA as a "level of trivial
   effective dose equivalent" (IAEA 1988) and 2) it is the same as the
   National Council on Radiological Protection and Measurements (NCRP)
   value for a "negligible individual dose" (NCRP 1993). A major
   disadvantage for the 10 µSv/y (1 mrem/y) level is detectability. For
   some radionuclides, the surface and volume concentrations that
   correspond to the dose level are not measurable with field instruments.
   The standard does state that it is allowable for higher TEDEs to be
   used in the clearance of materials from regulatory control, justified
   on a case-by-case basis, when it can be ensured that exposures to
   multiple sources (including those that are beyond the scope of this
   standard) * will be maintained as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA)
   and * will provide an adequate margin of safety below the public dose
   limit of 1 mSv/y (100 mrem/y) TEDE. Derived screening levels (DSLs) are
   surface or volume concentrations that correspond to the primary dose
   criterion, linked to it by considering one or more exposure models.
   Annex B (also "Informative") describes the models considered in
   deriving the screening levels. For both the surface and volume cases,
   three pathways were considered: exposure to sources of penetrating
   radiation external to the body, inhalation of radioactive materials,
   and ingestion of the radioactive materials. The standard notes that in
   deriving worst-case scenarios, other exposure pathways could be
   significant. However, it was judged that such scenarios are not needed
   to "provide reasonable assurance that the primary dose criterion will
   be met" and are not part of the modeling for the standard. For
   establishing the derived screening level with respect to volume
   contamination, the working group for the standard developed a building
   remodeling scenario for 50 radionuclides in a manner consistent with
   IAEA studies in this area (IAEA 1987). The group also reviewed the
   results of previous studies and modeling. In particular, a screening
   model developed by the NCRP, two previous studies done for DOE, one for
   the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and one for the NRC,
   were examined for volume concentration limits. For surface
   contamination levels, the group developed a model similar to that
   developed by the IAEA in 1987 and found a published study that had
   surface contamination limits for the reuse of tools and equipment. In
   calculating the effective dose equivalent via inhalation and ingestion,
   the group assumed that all surface contamination was removable. Thus,
   there is no need for separate "removable" and "fixed plus removable"
   DSLs in the standard. For each radionuclide, the working group examined
   the range of results of modeling and used "professional judgment" to
   assign each into one of four groups. The groups used were 0.1, 1, 10,
   and 4 100 Bq/g or Bq/cm2, that is, using the same numerical value for
   both the surface and volume screening levels when expressed in these
   units. If screening levels for the low-energy beta-emitters had been
   based on dose alone, there would need to be a group with a much larger
   screening level. However, the working group judged that contamination
   control considerations justified including these radionuclides in the
   100 Bq/g or Bq/cm2 group. Further, the working group considered
   detectability of the screening levels and concluded that "with a
   careful selection of alpha and gamma spectrometry instruments, it
   should be possible to attain minimum detectable activity lower than the
   screening level for most groups of radionuclides identified in this
   standard." This conclusion is based on calculations of a 10-minute
   gamma spectrometry count of a liter of water with a high-purity
   germanium (HPGe) detector, a 1,000-minute count for alpha spectroscopy,
   a 10-minute count for liquid scintillation of a smear, and a 1-minute
   count of smear for gammas with an HPGe detector. The HPGe detector
   modeled has 60% efficiency for 60Co relative to a 3×3 in. NaI(Tl)
   detector. The working group then converted the surface and volume
   screening levels in Bq/cm2 and Bq/g to dpm/100 cm2 and pCi/g,
   respectively. Unfortunately, the standard rounds the values for
   traditional units, so that values in the old units would read "3" when
   the un-rounded value is 2.7027. Thus, ANSI/HPS N13.12 does not specify
   unique values for surface and volume contamination. 2.4 Implementation
   In this section, the standard gives guidance on issues related to
   measurements needed to demonstrate compliance with the standard: * the
   importance of using process knowledge in planning for the measurements
   * criteria for use in the selection of instruments and methods to
   perform the measurements * the use of volumetric measurements in lieu
   of surface measurements * criteria for averaging surface or volume
   measurements * a sum of fractions method when more than one
   radionuclide or chain of radionuclides is present - Progeny with a
   half-life that is short compared to the parent do not need to be
   considered in the sum of fractions. For decay chains, the screening
   levels are for the total activity present. * considerations for
   ensuring that sampling is representative when 100% sampling is
   unreasonable * considerations for using scanning measurements as
   opposed to direct measurements. 2.5 Records This short section gives
   the requirements for records above and beyond those in ANSI N13.6-1989,
   Practice for Occupational Radiation Exposure Records Systems (ANSI
   1989): * description of the items surveyed 5 * survey results, date,
   and identity of the person who performed the survey, and * archived
   procedures or other records that specify pertinent details about how
   the measurements were made, such as personnel training, operating
   instructions, and calibration details. 2.6 References There is a short
   list of references cited in the standard itself. In addition, there is
   a complete Annex C that is an extensive list of "normative and
   informative" references for Annexes A and B. The normative references
   are those actually cited in one of the annexes. The informative
   references are a bibliography of material related to contamination and
   related subjects. 6 3 Examination of the Derived Screening Levels for
   Radionuclides The screening levels for the 50 radionuclides listed in
   the standard can be viewed in several different ways. Figures 2 through
   5 show levels from other sources for groups of radionuclides
   corresponding to the standard's screening levels of 0.1, 1, 10, and 100
   Bq/g or Bq/cm2, respectively. In each figure, the heavy black line
   shows the standard's level for each group for comparison with the range
   of clearance levels given by the IAEA (1996a) and the values given in
   Regulatory Guide 1.86 (USAEC 1974). The order of the radionuclides in
   each graph was chosen to correspond with the lower end of the IAEA
   range to minimize the "sawtooth" appearance. The 0.1-Bq/g or Bq/cm2
   group (Figure 2) includes the alpha-emitting nuclides except the
   uranium isotopes. The ANSI screening levels are generally at the low
   end of the IAEA-recommended range but above the Regulatory Guide 1.86
   values. The 1-Bq/g or Bq/cm2 group (Figure 3) includes the natural
   isotopes of uranium and, generally, radionuclides that emit energetic
   betas or gammas. For most of the nuclides in this group, the ANSI
   screening levels are in line with the Regulatory Guide 1.86 values and
   at the high end of the IAEA range. For the 10- Bq/g or Bq/cm2 group
   (Figure 4), all screening levels are at least a factor 10 larger than
   the Regulatory Guide 1.86 values and are in or below the IAEA range.
   Note that the ANSI standard level is 600 times greater than the
   Regulatory Guide 1.86 level for 241Pu and 129I. Plutonium-241 emits a
   weak beta (21 keV) and its 14.4-y half-life allows for significant
   decay over the 50-y period for which the committed effective dose
   equivalent is calculated. Although it has a long half-life (16 million
   years), 129I emits a beta of modest energy (150 keV). The 100-Bq/g or
   Bq/cm2 group shows the greatest difference between the ANSI screening
   levels and the Regulatory Guide 1.86 values. All of the ANSI values are
   two orders of magnitude less restrictive. Over half of the ANSI
   screening levels lie outside the IAEA range. Another way of looking at
   the ANSI screening levels is to compare them with the values in
   Appendix D of 10 CFR 835 (Figures 6 and 7). Figure 6 is a histogram of
   the distribution of ratios of screening levels in the standard to total
   surface contamination values in Appendix D of 10 CFR 835. Figure 7
   shows the ratios themselves in bar graph format. DOE facilities use
   Appendix D to identify and post Contamination and High Contamination
   Areas. The Appendix D values are the same as those in Regulatory Guide
   1.86 with one exception: The Appendix D "total contamination" limit for
   the group that contains the transuranic radionuclides and other
   radionuclides is 0.0833 Bq/cm2 (500 dpm/cm2), five times the value for
   the corresponding group in Regulatory Guide 1.86. Therefore, the ANSI
   screening level of 0.1 Bq/cm2 is almost no change. 7 10 1 0.1 Level
   (Bq/cm^2) 0.01 210Po 210Pb 226Ra 228Ra 228Th 230Th 232Th 237Np 239Pu
   240Pu 241Am 244Cm Figure 2. Comparison of 0.1 Bq/g or Bq/cm2 Group
   Shaded area is IAEA- recommended range and slim black line is
   Regulatory Guide 1.86 value. 10 1 0.1 Level (Bq/cm^2) 0.01 58Co 65Zn
   90Sr 192Ir 106Ru 22Na 54Mn 60Co 94Nb 124Sb 134Cs 137Cs 152Eu 234U 235U
   238U 110mAg Figure 3. Comparison of 1 Bq/g or Bq/cm2 Group  Shaded area
   is IAEA- recommended range and slim black line is Regulatory Guide 1.86
   value. 8 1000 100 10 1 Level (Bq/cm^2) 0.1 0.01 36Cl 109Cd 144Ce 241Pu
   59Fe 131I 129I Figure 4. Comparison of 10 Bq/g or Bq/cm2 Group  Shaded
   area is IAEA-recommended range and slim black line is Regulatory Guide
   1.86 value. 10000 1000 ) 100 10 Level (Bq/cm^2 1 0.1 0.01 3H 35S 45Ca
   63Ni 14C 55Fe 89Sr 99Tc 51Cr 125I 32P 111In 147Pm 198Au 24Na Figure 5.
   Comparison of 100 Bq/g or Bq/cm2 Group  Shaded area is IAEA-
   recommended range and slim black line is Regulatory Guide 1.86 value. 9
   30 Beta-gamma Alpha 25 20 15 Frequency 10 5 0 0.15 0.8 1.5 8 15 80 150
   800 1500 Upper Bound of Bin of Ratios Figure 6. Distribution of Ratios
   of ANSI Screening Levels to 10 CFR 835, Appendix D, Total Surface
   Contamination Limits Some DOE sites could, or do, use a labor-saving
   alternative to smearing items and workplace surfaces to measure
   removable contamination. The alternative is to measure all
   contamination with a 100-cm2 probe and then compare the results with
   the removable contamination value. Such a practice would work well at
   sites with little contamination and would save the labor of collecting
   the smear sample, taking it to a counting laboratory, and delaying
   completion of the survey form until the lab results are returned. For a
   site using or considering this practice, the ANSI screening levels
   would be significantly less restrictive, as shown in Figures 6 and 7.
   Figures 8 and 9 show the ratio of the ANSI screening level to the most
   restrictive derived air concentration (DAC) for the radionuclides. The
   purpose of these plots is to examine the uniformity of the balancing of
   hazard and control, within and among the ANSI radionuclide groups. The
   ratio has units of meters, but there is no physical significance to
   this fact of dimensional analysis. 10 I-125 I-129 P u-241 C-14 Na-24 P
   -32 S -35 Ca-45 Cr -51 Fe-55 Ni-63 S r -89 T c-99 In-111 P m-147 Au-198
   I-131 H-3 Cl-36 Fe-59 Cd-109 Ce-144 S r -90 R a-226 R a-228 T h-228 T
   h-230 Np-237 P u-239 P u-240 Am-241 Cm-244 Na-22 Mn-54 Co-58 Co-60
   Zn-65 Nb-94 R u-106 Ag-110m S b-124 Cs-134 Cs-137 Eu-152 Eu-154 Ir -192
   U-234 U-235 U-238 T h-232 P b-210 P o-210 0 1 10 100 1,000 10,000
   100,000 Ratio Figure 7. Ratio of ANSI Screening Levels to 10 CFR 835
   Removable Contamination Limits 11 1.0E+5 1.0E+4 1.0E+3 1.0E+2 1/m
   1.0E+1 1.0E+0 1.0E-1 10 Bq/cm^2 Group 100 Bq/cm^2 Group Figure 8. Ratio
   of ANSI Screening Level to DAC for 10 and 100 Bq/cm2 Groups 1.0E+5
   1.0E+4 1.0E+3 1.0E+2 1/m 1.0E+1 1.0E+0 1.0E-1 0 .1 B q /cm^2 Gr o up 1
   B q /cm^2 Gr o up Figure 9. Ratio of ANSI Screening Level to DAC for
   0.1 and 1 Bq/cm2 Groups 12 The ANSI screening level, S, is inversely
   proportional to the amount of control recommended for the radionuclide:
   (1) The DAC is inversely proportional to the intake hazard of a
   radionuclide, to a first approximation: (2) The ratio of S to DAC is,
   therefore, one representation of the ratio of hazard to the amount of
   control recommended implicitly for the radionuclide: (3) The
   hazard-to-control ratios, S/DAC, for all of the radionuclides to the
   right of uranium in Figure 9 and in most of Figure 8 tend to be lower
   than the ratios for the thorium, uranium, and transuranium
   radionuclides. This pattern suggests that the control needs, implied by
   the value of the screening levels, are greater for the thorium,
   uranium, and transuranium radionuclides than if based solely on the
   hazard implied by the DAC. With the exception of 3H and 14C, small
   S/DAC ratios are characteristic of hard gamma-emitting radionuclides,
   for which contamination levels are limited by external irradiation
   levels. Also, the figures show three orders of magnitude of spread in
   S/DAC among the radionuclides in the groups above the 0.1-Bq group. An
   alternative interpretation to the hazard-to- control ratios in Figures
   8 and 9 is that the ratios are correct for uranium, thorium, and the
   transuranic radionuclides, but the other radionuclides are
   "under-controlled." 13 4 Potential Uses of the ANSI Clearance Standard
   There are several potential uses for ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999. The DOE may
   wish to consider * direct use of standard values in disposal and
   recycling of radioactively contaminated materials or wastes at cleanup
   sites * application of standard values to biomedical and similar
   research laboratory wastes * use of standard values for posting and
   controlling contamination areas * application of standard values to
   decrease the number and frequency of measurements of surface
   contamination in workplace environments * use of standard values to
   reduce or eliminate the need to count smears in a counting laboratory.
   Requirements for the first two potential uses are codified in DOE Order
   5400.5, Radiation Protection of the Public and the Environment (DOE
   1993). Requirements for the last three potential uses are found in 10
   CFR 835, "Occupational Radiation Protection." As the potential uses of
   HPS/ANSI N13.12-1999 are discussed below, modifications of, or actions
   under, the appropriate set of requirements are discussed. 4.1 Derived
   Screening Levels Scalable to Other Dose Criteria The standard
   identifies a primary dose criterion of 10 µSv/y (1 mrem/y) TEDE above
   background. This value is not an absolute limit. The standard permits
   clearance of materials at higher levels, justified on a case-by-case
   basis, when it can be ensured that exposures to multiple sources will
   be maintained ALARA and will provide an adequate margin of safety below
   the public dose limit of 1 mSv/y (100 mrem/y) TEDE. In Order 5400.5,
   DOE, sets the same primary dose limit, that is, 1 mSv/y (100 mrem/y),
   for a member of the general public. Chapter IV of the Order provides
   for guidelines for concentrations of radioactivity in soil and surface
   contamination based on existing radiation protection standards or on
   the primary dose limit. The same dose limit, 1 mSv/y (100 mrem/y), is
   used in 10 CFR 835 as the limit for members of the general public
   entering a controlled area, the dose limit for minors, and the
   threshold requiring appropriate personnel dosimetry for general
   workers. Thus, in using the DSLs in the standard for clearance or the
   other potential uses, DOE would have the flexibility to choose a
   different dose criterion, providing it could show that such level was
   consistent with the ALARA principle and would not lead to combined
   doses from multiple sources in excess of the applicable DOE dose limit.
   For example, a dose criterion of 250 µSv/y (25 mrem/y) would lead to a
   25-Bq/g group containing all of the radionuclides in the 1-Bq/g group
   in the standard. DOE Order 5400.5 also allows establishing authorized
   limits and supplemental limits under the primary dose limit. Authorized
   limits are developed by project offices in the field and are based on
   health, safety, practical, programmatic, and socioeconomic
   considerations. Authorized limits are approved by the appropriate
   Headquarters Program Office. DOE field offices may establish 14
   supplemental limits when "the established limits do not provide
   adequate protection or are unnecessarily restrictive and costly"
   (emphasis added). In considering the use of the DSLs at the recommended
   or alternatively chosen dose level, the exact nature of the standard's
   dose criterion is important. The standard establishes the dose
   criterion for an average member of a critical group. Thus, a dose to a
   single individual (real or hypothetical) approaching or even exceeding
   the dose criterion is not necessarily a violation of the standard. 4.2
   Direct Use in the Recycling and Disposal of Radioactively Contaminated
   Materials or Wastes at Cleanup Sites The values of the DSLs could be
   incorporated into DOE Order 5400.5, replacing the values in Chapter IV,
   notably the Surface Contamination Guidelines in Figure IV-1, and
   expanding their use to apply to volume contamination as well. DOE
   issued significant interim guidance in 1995, expanding the isotopes
   addressed in Figure IV-1 (DOE 1995). Alternatively, the standard could
   be used as the basis for justifying and establishing authorized limits
   or supplemental limits. Since the occupancy and renovation scenarios
   used to establish the DSLs are consistent with the Order 5400.5
   expectations of "worst case plausible use" scenarios, use of the DSLs
   should require no additional formal documentation establishing their
   technical basis. Annexes A and B to the standard are robust and
   self-explanatory. Use of the standard's DSLs associated with the 10
   µSv/y (1 mrem/y) dose criterion will have only modest benefit in
   cleaning up former production sites. For cleanup, the uranium isotopes,
   the transuranic radionuclides, and 90Sr and 137Cs are important. As
   Figures 2 and 3 show, the DSLs are only six times less restrictive for
   plutonium, the other transuranic radionuclides, and 90Sr. The DSLs for
   137Cs and the uranium isotopes are almost unchanged. However, use of
   the standard would provide risk-based volume contamination standards.
   Furthermore, if a higher dose criterion, such as 100 µSv/y (10 mrem/y)
   or 250 µSv/y (25 mrem/y), were used, the benefits of using the standard
   could be substantial. DOE has adopted a policy on acceptable levels of
   radionuclides in hazardous waste and is considering establishing a
   policy on acceptable levels of contamination on metals released from
   DOE facilities for recycle at commercial facilities. In neither of
   these cases are release levels based on DOE Order 5400.5, Figure IV-1
   values. Rather, "detectability" is the primary criterion. Thus,
   replacing the current Order 5400.5, Figure IV-1 values with ANSI N13.12
   values will have little impact on items judged by the different
   criterion of "detectability." However, the risk-based consensus
   standard ANSI N13.12 could give DOE a credible and valid basis for
   changing its current policy on these two important waste streams. 4.3
   Disposal of Biomedical and Similar Research Laboratory Wastes Much of
   the work done at DOE national laboratories involves tracer
   radionuclides that are used for in vitro experiments and measurements.
   These radionuclides include 3H, 14C, 32P, 35S, and others. The ANSI
   screening level for 3H is 60 times less restrictive than the Appendix D
   value, and for the other three radionuclides and many of the other
   tracers, a factor of 120 less restrictive. Also, the ANSI standard
   gives volumetric contamination limits; DOE Order 5400.5 does not. Gels,
   used filters, paper and other laboratory wastes often have
   contamination that is not strictly surface contamination. Because some
   of the contamination is within the volume of the waste, it would be
   difficult to defend the use of the current DOE Order 5400.5 surface
   contamination values for waste that is known to have contamination 15
   below the surface. However, use of the ANSI screening levels could be
   easily defended. Thus, DOE and its contractors could use the ANSI
   screening levels to dispose of much of their biomedical and similar
   low-activity waste in ordinary landfills. The cost savings are not
   estimated in this report but would be considerable. Given the general
   public's concern about radioactive wastes, even those with very low
   concentrations of radionuclides, it is not likely that DOE could
   unilaterally adopt the ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999 screening levels and start
   sending much of its biomedical research wastes to public sanitary
   landfills. Nonetheless, the recently adopted ANSI standard should be a
   good basis for beginning discussions with EPA and NRC about changing
   the regulations for all generators of radioactive waste with low
   concentrations of radionuclides. ANSI N13.12, an industry standard,
   should play an important role in the regulatory process. In fact, the
   White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued on February
   10, 1998, a revision to Circular No. A-119, Federal Participation in
   the Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus Standards and in
   Conformity Assessment Activities. The revision is the result of the
   National Technology Transfer Act of 1995 (Public Law 104-113), signed
   by the President in March 1996. The OMB directive and the law require
   federal agencies to use voluntary industry standards developed by the
   private sector whenever possible. The purpose of this requirement is to
   eliminate excessive costs to the government incurred in developing its
   own standards. This government-wide directive should help the EPA, NRC,
   and DOE cooperate to adopt the ANSI N13.12 methodology and values. 4.4
   Use of the ANSI Screening Levels for Designating Contamination Areas
   The final review draft of ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999 indicated that the
   standard could apply "to areas within facilities during operation".
   This draft language was intended to cover the situation at operating
   DOE facilities where the historic surface contamination values found in
   Regulatory Guide 1.86, as adopted in 10 CFR Part 835, Appendix D, were
   used to make decisions about designating and posting radiological
   control areas.(a) The writing group fully intended that the surface
   contamination screening levels in ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999 could be used
   for this purpose. However, during the final review by the HPS N13
   Committee, the representative of the NRC took exception to this
   language because the ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999 values and methodology were
   not sufficiently consistent with the NRC's screening levels for license
   termination. The NRC criterion is 250 µSv/y (25 mrem/y), 25 times
   greater than the ANSI N13.12 level. In light of the NRC concerns, the
   writing group chose to eliminate the language that referred to
   operational facilities. Two changes were made to the draft standard: 1)
   modifying the scope statement to (a) Areas where radioactive
   contamination is 1 to 100 times the values in 10 CFR 835, Appendix D,
   are designated "Contamination Areas," while those exceeding Appendix D
   values by more than a factor of 100 are designated "High Contamination
   Areas." Such areas are posted with appropriate warning signs. If and
   when contamination levels are reduced, the warning signs are changed or
   removed. The removal of the designation and warning signs is commonly
   called "de-posting" or "de-regulating," while changing from High
   Contamination to Contamination Area is commonly called "down-posting."
   16 read, "This standard applies to the clearance of materials and
   equipment from controlled areas during operations" (deleting the
   phrases "and areas within facilities" and including "decontamination
   activities"), and 2) deleting the sentence, "However, this standard
   could be incorporated into a decommissioning plan to provide criteria
   for clearance of materials during the decommissioning process." In
   making these changes and deletions, the writing group chose to be
   silent on the issue of applying the standard for contamination control
   in operational areas. The final language was an attempt to provide a
   clear interpretation about how NRC licensees are required to proceed,
   without limiting how DOE might choose to apply the standard.(a) The
   building occupancy and building renovation scenarios in the ANSI
   standard used to derive the surface and volume contamination limits
   were originally devised by the working group to bound radiological
   conditions that would be found after operating areas were posted (and
   de-posted) in accordance with the screening limits in the standard.
   Therefore, DOE would have a good technical basis for adopting the ANSI
   screening levels for this additional purpose. For example, Annex B to
   the standard explains the scenario for the surface contamination
   screening level (in Section B.1.4.2) as follows: To represent a limit
   for clearance of potentially large surface sources, a scenario analysis
   was conducted for rooms of facilities that contain materials with
   surface sources of radioactivity that are cleared from further
   radiological control. The scenario assumes that a room is occupied as a
   commercial facility after clearance of the sources in a manner that
   results in exposure of individuals to the surface sources of
   radioactivity. The scenario is conservatively assumed to occur during
   the first year following clearance and involves the external,
   inhalation, and ingestion exposure pathways. Clearly, this scenario
   bounds many of the radiological conditions that might occur after
   "de-posting" operational areas which were designated as "contaminated"
   using 10 CFR 835, Appendix D, values but which could be cleared using
   the ANSI screening levels. As discussed earlier, the ANSI screening
   levels for alpha-emitting radionuclides and long-lived fission products
   are not much different from the values in Appendix D. Thus, the new
   levels will not help simplify the operation of former production sites
   with areas of high fixed contamination. They could allow DOE to
   "de-post" or "down-post" some areas where removable surface
   contamination currently requires radiological controls. Using the ANSI
   values could help a lot with "de-posting" (de-regulating) or
   "down-posting" general research laboratories using common tracers,
   resulting in levels of radiological control being more in line with
   radiological hazard. For example, clean working habits in a fume hood
   with only 3H, 14C, 32P, and 35S could meet the 100 Bq/cm2 (600,000
   dpm/100 cm2) limit most of the time. By comparison, the current limit
   is 10,000 dpm/100 cm2 removable for 3H and 5,000 dpm/100 cm2 total
   contamination for the other three tracer radionuclides. For the
   occasional spill in a lab not posted as a Contamination Area,
   procedures could be developed for that contingency. The area near the
   spill could be posted temporarily as a Contamination Area immediately
   after a spill and during the clean up. Provided the spill could be
   cleaned up to meet the ANSI screening levels, the area could then be
   "de-posted." Such labs would need to be surveyed occasionally to ensure
   there were not undetected spills. However, such a program would more
   efficiently (a) Personal communication from W.E. Kennedy, Jr. 17 use
   resources than managing all labs with radionuclides day-in-and-day-out
   as Contamination Areas. This report does not attempt to quantify the
   savings of such a use of the ANSI screening levels, but the authors
   expect it would be significant. Cost savings would also help DOE
   researchers more effectively compete for research funds from agencies
   such as The National Institute of Health and The National Science
   Foundation. 4.5 Decreasing the Number and Frequency of Measurements of
   Surface Contamination in Workplace Environments By specifying different
   limits for removable and total surface contamination, Appendix D
   essentially requires two measurements for releasing items from
   Contamination Areas, High Contamination Areas, and Airborne
   Radioactivity Areas and for routine and pre-job surveying of work
   areas. By adopting the single limit in ANSI N13.12, DOE could cut the
   number of required measurements nearly in half. For purposes of keeping
   worker doses from external and internal sources ALARA, measurements of
   removable contamination may still be needed to support a contamination
   control program. However, such measurements could be limited to areas
   where individuals work routinely or are planning to work and would be
   needed only when measurements of total contamination or ambient dose
   rate indicate that radiological conditions have changed since the last
   measurements of removable contamination. 4.6 Reduce or Eliminate the
   Need to Count Smears in a Counting Laboratory The current Appendix D
   limit for removable contamination for transuranic radionuclides is 20
   dpm/100 cm2 and for 90Sr is 200 dpm/100 cm2. Smears for these nuclides
   cannot be reliably "field counted," that is, assayed with a portable
   meter by the technician who performs the smear sample, to detect such
   low levels. Thus, smears for transuranic radionuclides and 90Sr have to
   be taken and counted in a counting laboratory. As Figure 9 shows, the
   ANSI screening level is much larger than the removable limit for the
   transuranic radionuclides. Alpha radioactivity of 600 dpm/100 cm2 can
   be measured with field instruments, either by a direct measurement or
   by field-counting a smear. Similarly, 90Sr contamination of 6,000
   dpm/100 cm2 can be measured with a beta-gamma survey instrument, even
   in a modest field of external gamma radiation. Shifting from low
   background counting to field counting of the contamination levels of
   nuclides in the two lowest categories in Appendix D would significantly
   reduce the workload on counting laboratories. More important, "field
   counting" of transuranic and 90Sr smear samples would expedite
   operational decisions based on survey results, thus saving time and
   money. 18 5 ANSI Standard as a Technical Basis for "Solid Effluents"
   The top half of Figure 1 shows schematically how regulatory controls
   are applied, or not applied, to practices that create sources that
   could expose the public to radiation or radioactive material. For
   radioactive material exiting from regulatory control, clearance is a
   parallel path to gaseous and liquid effluents. In fact, clearance (of
   materials for reuse or recycle and of wastes for disposal without
   regulation of radioactive content) may be thought of as release of
   "solid effluents." ANSI/HPS N13.12- 1999 is a consensus standard with a
   good scientific basis that regulatory agencies could use to allow
   "solid effluents" in a manner that is safe, that is, does not put undue
   risk on individuals, groups of individuals, or the environment, present
   or future. We do not propose to define a new waste category. Rather, we
   suggest a different perspective on existing wastes. In Figure 1,
   exemption and exclusion are the decision-making processes by which a
   source of radiation exposure may bypass the sphere of regulation.
   Natural background radiation is a common example of exclusion of a
   source of radiation exposure. Public use of smoke detectors is a
   familiar example of exemption. Release of air and water effluents below
   concentration limits specified in regulations is a generally accepted
   way for radioactive material to exit from regulatory control. Once a
   radioactive material leaves a licensed or permitted facility, in
   accordance with the license or permit, it is no longer controlled by
   the facility operator or the regulatory authority. The regulatory
   authority (usually the NRC, the states, or DOE) is very careful to
   allow only the amounts, types, and concentrations of gaseous and liquid
   effluents that it can demonstrate are safe. They seek not to put undue
   risk on individuals, groups of individuals, or the environment, present
   or future. Using the standard as a basis for defining "solid effluents"
   can help integrate the clearance process into the menu of options the
   DOE has for managing its environmental cleanup and research missions.
   In March 1999, the NRC published a draft report on radiological
   assessments for clearance of equipment and materials from nuclear
   facilities (McKenzie-Carter et al. 1999). The report, issued for public
   comment, gives no dose criterion for clearance. Rather, it examines
   numerous scenarios for material and equipment reuse, disposal in
   sanitary landfills, and recycle into manufactured goods. The report
   specifically examines 85 radionuclides in four materials (aluminum,
   concrete, copper, and steel) and gives various factors for converting
   surface contamination and volume contamination to effective dose
   equivalent to a critical group of individuals. A critical group is that
   group of individuals that has the largest dose factors calculated for a
   particular scenario. An example of a critical group is the truck
   drivers who deliver recycled scrap metal. This NRC report has not been
   finalized. In March 2000, the NRC terminated the contract with the firm
   that wrote the draft report and decided to ask the U.S. National
   Academy of Sciences (NAS) to study and recommend alternatives for
   release of slightly contaminated solid materials. The committee formed
   to do the NAS study met on March 3, 2001. Because the NRC report has
   not been finalized, its results were not considered in this report. 19
   6 Conclusions and Recommendations Historically, DOE has managed
   occupational radiation protection and environmental radiation
   protection with two separate programs. The requirements for
   occupational radiation protection are specified in 10 CFR 835,
   "Occupational Radiation Protection." The requirements for environmental
   radiation protection are codified in DOE Order 5400.5, Radiation
   Protection of the Public and the Environment (DOE 1993). To be of most
   use, the conclusions and recommendations of this report are separated
   into those that are relevant to both programs, those relevant to
   occupational radiation protection, and those relevant to environmental
   radiation protection. 6.1 Conclusions and Recommendations Relevant to
   Both Occupational and Environmental Radiation Protection It would be
   reasonable, prudent and cost-effective for DOE to replace the values
   currently in 10 CFR 835, Appendix D, and DOE Order 5400.5, Figure IV-1,
   with the DSLs in ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999. This action would ensure
   consistency between the operational and environmental radiation
   protection programs operated throughout DOE. The standard identifies a
   primary dose criterion of 10 µSv/y (1 mrem/y) TEDE above background.
   This value is not an absolute limit. The standard permits clearance of
   materials at higher levels, justified on a case-by-case basis, when it
   can be ensured that exposures to multiple sources will be maintained
   ALARA and will provide an adequate margin of safety below the public
   dose limit of 1 mSv/y (100 mrem/y) TEDE. In Order 5400.5, the DOE sets
   the same primary dose limit of 1 mSv/y (100 mrem/y) for a member of the
   general public. Chapter IV of the Order provides for guidelines for
   concentrations of radioactivity in soil and surface contamination based
   on existing radiation protection standards or on the primary dose
   limit. The same dose limit of 1 mSv/y (100 mrem/y) is used in 10 CFR
   835 as the limit for members of the general public entering a
   controlled area, the dose limit for minors, and the threshold requiring
   appropriate personnel dosimetry for general workers. Thus, in using the
   DSLs in the standard for clearance or the other potential uses, DOE
   would have the flexibility to choose a different dose criterion,
   providing it could show that such level was consistent with the ALARA
   principle and would not lead to combined doses from multiple sources in
   excess of the applicable DOE dose limit. For example, a dose criterion
   of 250 µSv/y (25 mrem/y) would lead to a 25-Bq/g group containing all
   of the radionuclides in the 1-Bq/g group in the standard. Both in 10
   CFR 835, Appendix D, and DOE Order 5400.5, Figure IV-1, the current
   limit for removable contamination for transuranic radionuclides is 20
   dpm/100 cm2 and for 90Sr is 200 dpm/100 cm2. Smears for these nuclides
   cannot be reliably "field counted," that is, assayed with a portable
   meter, and have to be taken to a counting laboratory instead. Since the
   DSLs are much larger than the removable limit for the transuranic
   radionuclides and 90Sr, smear samples could be measured with field
   instruments. Shifting from low background counting to field counting of
   smears of nuclides in the two lowest categories in Appendix D and
   Figure IV-1 would significantly reduce the workload on counting
   laboratories. 20 6.2 Conclusions and Recommendations Relevant to
   Occupational Radiation Protection The building occupancy and building
   renovation scenarios used in the standard to derive the surface and
   volume contamination DSLs were originally devised by the working group
   to place bounds on radiological conditions that would be found after
   operating areas were posted (and de-posted) in accordance with the
   screening limits in the standard. Therefore, DOE would have a good
   technical basis for adopting the ANSI screening levels for this
   additional purpose. Such use of the DSLs is not excluded by the
   standard. Using the standard's DSLs could help with "down-posting" or
   "de-posting" of research laboratories where common biomedical tracers
   are used. For example, clean working habits in a fume hood with only
   3H, 14C, 32P, and 35S, could meet the 100 Bq/cm2 (600,000 dpm/100 cm2)
   limit most of the time. By comparison, the current limit is 10,000
   dpm/100 cm2 removable for 3H and 5,000 dpm/100 cm2 total contamination
   for the other three tracer radionuclides. 6.3 Conclusions and
   Recommendations Relevant to Environmental Radiation Protection Using
   the standard as a basis for defining "solid effluents" can help
   integrate the clearance process into the menu of options the DOE has
   for managing its environmental cleanup and research missions. For two
   waste streams, metals and hazardous waste contaminated with
   radionuclides, DOE's policy is based on "detectability" as the primary
   criterion. Using the risk-based consensus standard ANSI N13.12 could
   give DOE a credible and valid basis for changing its current policy on
   these two important waste streams. Currently, there is no standard for
   the release of materials with trace amounts of contamination throughout
   their volume. ANSI N13.12-1999 does provide a technical basis for
   treating materials with trace amounts of radioactive contamination
   throughout their volume as ordinary waste. Some work done at DOE
   national laboratories involves soft beta-emitting tracer radionuclides
   that are used for biomedical research. These radionuclides include 3H,
   14C, 32P, 35S and others. The ANSI screening level for 3H is 60 times
   less restrictive than the Appendix D value. For the other three
   radionuclides and many of the other tracers, the DSLs are a factor of
   120 less restrictive. With the surface and volume DSLs, DOE and its
   contractors could use the ANSI screening levels to dispose of much of
   its laboratory waste in ordinary landfills. The cost savings are not
   estimated in this report but would be considerable. 21 7 References 10
   CFR 20, "Standards for Protection Against Radiation." U.S. Nuclear
   Regulatory Commission. 10 CFR 820, "Procedural Rules for DOE Nuclear
   Activities." U.S. Department of Energy. 10 CFR 835, "Occupational
   Radiation Protection." U.S. Department of Energy. American National
   Standards Institute (ANSI). 1989. Practice for Occupational Radiation
   Exposure Records Systems. An American National Standard. ANSI
   N13.6-1966 (R1989), American National Standards Institute, New York.
   American National Standards Institute (ANSI). 1999. Surface and Volume
   Radioactivity Standards for Clearance. An American National Standard.
   ANSI/HPS N13.12-1999, Health Physics Society, McLean, Virginia.
   International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). 1987. Exemption of Radiation
   Sources and Practices from Regulatory Control. IAEA-TECDOC-401,
   International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna. International Atomic Energy
   Agency (IAEA). 1988. Principles for the Exemption of Radiation Sources
   and Practices from Regulatory Control. Safety Series No. 89,
   International Atomic Enengy Agency, Vienna. International Atomic Energy
   Agency (IAEA). 1996a. Clearance Levels for Radionuclides in Solid
   Materials. Application of Exemption Principles. Interim Report for
   Comment. IAEA-TECDOC-855, International Atomic Energy Agency, Vienna.
   International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). 1996b. International Basic
   Safety Standards for Protection Against Ionizing Radiation and for the
   Safety of Radiation Sources. Safety Series No.115, International Atomic
   Energy Agency, Vienna. McKenzie-Carter, M.A., M.D. Otis, M.E. Anderson,
   J.A. Roberts, R.L. Gotchy, and R.A. Meck. 1999. Radiological
   Assessments for Clearance of Equipment and Materials from Nuclear
   Facilities. Main Report. Draft Report for Comment. NUREG-1640, Vol. 1,
   U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC. National Council on
   Radiation Protection and Measurements (NCRP). 1993. Limitation of
   Exposure to Ionizing Radiation. Report No. 116, NCRP Publications,
   Bethesda, Maryland. National Technology Transfer Act of 1995. Public
   Law 104-113. U.S. Atomic Energy Commission (USAEC). 1974. Termination
   of Operating Licenses for Nuclear Reactors. Regulatory Guide 1.86, U.S.
   Government Printing Office, Washington, DC. U.S. Department of Energy
   (DOE). 1993. Radiation Protection of the Public and the Environment.
   DOE Order 5400.5, Change 2, [Online]. Available URL:
   http://www.explorer.doe.gov:1776/ 22 U.S. Department of Energy (DOE)
   Office of Environment. 1995. Response to Questions and Clarification of
   Requirements and Processes: DOE 5400.5, Section II.5 and Chapter IV
   Implementation (Requirements Relating to Residual Radioactive
   Material). U.S. Department of Energy, Washington D.C. (Distributed via
   memo from Raymond F. Pelletier, Director of the Office of Environmental
   Policy and Assistance, November 17, 1995.) 23 PNNL-13484 Distribution
   No. of Copies Copies 2 Keith H. Dinger OFFSITE Health Physics Society
   Congressional Liaison 1 Kelly Beierschmitt 23 Prospect St. Oak Ridge
   National Laboratory Somersworth, NH 03878-2708 P.O. Box 2008 MS6249 Oak
   Ridge, TN 37831 1 Stephen W. Duce International Technology Corporation
   1 David E. Bernhardt 9924 San Madre Rogers & Associates Engineering
   Corp. Knoxville, TN 37922 536 E Holstein Salt Lake City, UT 84107 1 Ken
   Eger Foster Wheeler Environmental 1 Michael A. Boyd 111 Union Valley
   Road Environmental Protection Agency Oak Ridge, TN 37849 6602J 401 M
   Street, S.W. 1 Dennis Erickson Washington, DC 20460 Los Alamos National
   Laboratory P.O. Box 1663 MS K491 1 Kenneth Brog Los Alamos, NM 87545
   Brookhaven National Laboratory E, S, H, &Q Directorate 1 Wayne C. Gaul
   Bldg. 460 STARMET PO Box 5000 365 Metal Drive Upton, NY 11973-5000
   Barnwell, SC 29812 1 Kathy Carney 1 Paul H. Genoa Brookhaven National
   Laboratory Senior Project Manager, Plant Support Waste Management
   Division Nuclear Energy Institute Bldg. 860 Suite 400 PO Box 5000 1776
   I Street, NW Upton, NY 11973-5000 Washington, D.C 20006-3708 1 Shih-Yew
   Chen 1 Geoffrey S. Ibbott, PhD Argonne National Laboratory Radiation
   Physics Dept. Env. Assessment Div. UT M.D. Anderson Cancer Center
   Building 900 Box 547 Argonne, IL 60439 1515 Holcombe Blvd Houston, TX
   77030 1 Arthur E. Derosiers 52 Deer Jump Hill West Barnstable, MA 02668
   No. of Distr. 1 PNNL-13484 No. of No. of Copies Copies 1 Tracy A.
   Ikenberry 2 William E. Kennedy, Jr. Dade Moeller and Assoc., Inc. Dade
   Moeller and Assoc., Inc. 1845 Terminal Dr. 1845 Terminal Dr. STE 140
   STE 140 Richland, WA 99352 Richland, WA 99352 1 Robert M. Hallisey 1
   Stephen Layendecker Chair, Conf. of Radiation Control Program
   Brookhaven National Laboratory Directors Radiological Control Division
   Massachusetts Rad. Ctrl. Program Bldg. 194 174 Portland St. 5th Floor
   PO Box 5000 Boston MA 02130 Upton, NY 11973-5000 1 Lynette Hendricks 1
   William J. Madia Director, Plant Support Oak Ridge National Laboratory
   Nuclear Energy Institute P.O. Box 2008 MS6255 Suite 400 Oak Ridge, TN
   37831 1776 I Street, NW Washington, D.C 20006-3708 1 Jerome B. Martin
   6771 Beagle Dr. 1 Douglas Jamieson Hamilton, OH 45011 Duratek 1560 Bear
   Creek Rd. 1 Kathleen McAlister Oak Ridge TN 37831-2530 Chair of CRCPD
   Committee on Radioactivity Massachusetts Rad Ctrl Program 1 Alfred N.
   Johnson 79 East Side Dr. GTS Duratek Concord, NH 03301-5460 PO Box 2530
   1560 Bear Creek Road 1 Stephen McGuire Oak Ridge, TN 37831-2530. U.S.
   Nuclear Regulatory Commission Mail Stop 9 E45 1 Raymond H. Johnson, Jr.
   Two White Flint North Health Physics Society Rockville, MD 20555
   Scientific and Public Issues Committee Chair 2 Robert A. Meck Suite 302
   U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission 481 N. Fredrick Ave. Two White Flint
   North Gaithersburg, MD 20877 Mail Stop 9 F 31 11545 Rockville Pike 1
   Hong-Nian Jow Rockville, MD 20852-2738 Sandia National Labs 7009 Pala
   Mesa NE Albuquerque, NM 87111 Distr. 2 PNNL-13484 No. of No. of Copies
   Copies 1 Charles B. Meinhold 1 Anthony Stanford National Council on
   Radiation Protection Los Alamos National Laboratory and Measurements
   P.O. Box 1663 MS K492 7910 Woodmont Avenue, Suite 800 Los Alamos, NM
   87545 Bethesda, MD 20814-3095 1 Frederick P. Straccia 1 Francis R.
   O'Donnell Radiation Safety & Control Services, Inc. Oak Ridge National
   Laboratory 91 Portsmouth Ave 99 Deerfield Lane Stratham, NH 03885 Oak
   Ridge, TN 37830-8778 1 Kenneth L. Swinth 1 Carl J. Paperiello 2177
   Cascade Avenue U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Richland, WA 99352
   OWFN 11555 Rockville Pike 1 Alden N. Tschaeche Rockville, MD 20852-2738
   Nuclear Standards Unlimited 1250 Orchard Glen Circle 2 Harold T.
   Peterson Encinitas, CA 92024 Office of Environmental Policy and
   Assistance (EH-412) 1 Toshihide Ushino 1000 Independence Avenue, S.W.
   ICN Biomedicals Inc. Washington, DC 20585-0119 Dosimetry Division 3300
   Hyland Avenue 5 Joel L. Rabovsky Costa Mesa, CA 92626 Office of Worker
   Protection Programs and Hazards Management 2 Andrew Wallo, III EH-52,
   GTN, 270 CC Department of Energy 19901 Germantown Road Office of
   Environmental Safety and Health Germantown, MD 20874 (EH-41) Forrestal
   Bldg. GA-098 1 Michael T. Ryan Washington, DC 20585 768 Glossy Ibis Ln.
   Kiawah Island, SC 29455-5913 1 Robert C. Woodard Canberra Industries 1
   R. Gene Schreckhise 26 Evergreen Washington State Univ. - Tri Cities
   Middletown, CT 06457 2710 University Dr. Richland, WA 99352 2 Robert A.
   Wynveen Argonne National Laboratory 1 Jack M. Selby ESH-HP 201 230 M.H.
   Chew and Associates, Inc. 9700 S. Cass Avenue 5504 West Umatilla Street
   Argonne, IL 60439 Kennewick, WA 99336 Distr. 3 PNNL-13484 No. of No. of
   Copies Copies ONSITE 10 DOE Richland Operations Office (1) Terri L
   .Aldridge K8-50 2 Fluor Daniel Hanford Co. (1) Dianne L. Clark H6-60
   Gregory D. Perkins H8-67 (6) Wayne M. Glines A2-15 (1) Paul Kruger
   K8-50 2 Bechtel Hanford Co. (1) Brenda M. Pangborn A5-17 James E.
   Tarpinian H0-09 1 DOE Office of River Protection 34 Pacific Northwest
   National Laboratory Phillip E. Lamont H6-60 (1) Joan F. Adams K9-64 (1)
   Walter J. Apley K9-01 (1) Sharon D. Dossett P7-75 (1) John J. Fix K3-55
   (1) Mark E. Hevland P7-01 (1) John H. Holbrook H6-61 (1) Alice K.
   Ikenberry P7-79 (1) Joseph C. McDonald K3-53 (1) Ellyn M. Murphy K9-76
   (1) Bruce A. Napier K3-54 (1) Kelvin L. Soldat K3-53 (20) Paul S.
   Stansbury K3-54 (1) Gregory A. Stoetzel P7-78 (1) Daniel J. Strom K3-56
   (1) George J. Vargo K3-56 Distr. 4
