http://davidbonior.house.gov/biography.htm


   B I O G R A P H Y

   [Rep.jpg]
   [menu_01.gif]
   [menu_02.gif]
   [menu_03.gif]
   [menu_04.gif]
   [menu_05.gif]
   [menu_06.gif]
   [menu_07.gif]
   [menu_08.gif]

   Congressman David E. Bonior


   "The work of America is still done by people who pack a lunch, punch a
   clock, and pour their heart and soul into every paycheck. And we can't
   afford to leave them behind," says an impassioned David Bonior. "These
   are the people who show their faith in this country every day...and we
   must stand with them."

   In many ways, that statement sums up David  Bonior's political outlook;
   he speaks for the millions of Americans who are working harder than
   ever just to make ends meet. This commitment to working families often
   puts him at odds with certain special interests, but he believes that
   America's kitchen table concerns come first.

   Leadership has long been a tradition in the Bonior family: his father
   was a city council member, and then Mayor, of East Detroit. Whether
   volunteering in the community or serving in elected office, the Boniors
   have always taken pride in their community and shared a strong sense of
   civic duty.

   Born in Detroit on June 6, 1945, Bonior grew up in Hamtramck and East
   Detroit (now Eastpointe), Michigan. [Stadium.jpg] At St. Veronica's
   Elementary School, Bonior split his time between schoolwork and sports.
   If he wasn't doing homework, he'd ride his bike around the neighborhood
   with his friends, or practice throwing a football through an old tire
   in his back yard. Sometimes, on weekends, he and his dad would go to
   Tiger Stadium to see the great Detroit teams play baseball or football,
   or watch road games on the family's black-and-white TV.

   At Notre Dame High School, Bonior led his team to the area's 1962
   Catholic Championship game as quarterback.

   Bonior's discipline and determination in high school paid off when he
   was offered a scholarship to the University of Iowa, where he earned a
   B.A. in 1967. [Football.gif]

   Following graduation, Bonior joined the Air Force and was stationed in
   California. There he worked as a cook, slinging hash by day and
   attending night classes at Chapman University, where he earned a
   Masters Degree in History in 1972.

   After four years in the service, he returned home to Michigan and
   became an adoption caseworker and probation officer. Later that same
   year, the people of Macomb County elected him to the State House.

   In Lansing, Bonior helped promote Michigan's "bottle bill," which
   Michigan voters passed by referendum. The initiative all but eliminated
   roadside litter of cans and bottles in Michigan, and served as a model
   for similar measures around the country.

   Bonior's commitment to a clean environment can be traced to his boyhood
   summers, when he and his friends would ride their bicycles down to the
   beach to swim in Lake St. Clair. Like generations of Michigan
   residents, he acquired a profound love for the water, which all but
   surrounds the state. What many people don't realize is that Michigan
   has more coastline than any other state except Alaska, and is dotted
   with thousands of inland lakes. In fact, there are more registered
   boats per capita in the 10th Congressional district than anywhere else
   in the country, and every year Port Huron is the starting point of the
   famous Port Huron-Mackinac regatta.

   While in Lansing, Bonior also led a successful effort to ban PCBs, the
   dangerous carcinogens that were poisoning the state's fish and causing
   birth defects in children. This was ground-breaking legislation at the
   time and would become a model for the nation.  It would presage his
   later work with Vietnam Veterans and the effects of the wartime
   defoliant Agent Orange.

   Soon after his arrival in Washington, Bonior took up the cause of
   Vietnam Veterans, who had been treated poorly upon their return from
   southeast Asia. Making the point that it was important to "separate the
   warrior from the war," he founded a group called the Vietnam-era
   Veterans in Congress, and helped guide legislation through the House
   that specifically addressed the needs of veterans, including education,
   job training and health care. As the terrible effects of Agent Orange
   becoming apparent, health care assumed paramount importance.

   Bonior also helped build the coalition that made the national Vietnam
   Memorial a reality, a wall of names that even today draws crowds of
   somber visitors. He chronicled the veterans' difficult return home by
   co-authoring a 1984 book entitled "The Vietnam Veteran: A History of
   Neglect."

   It was during the 1980s that Bonior became deeply involved in the
   struggle for peace and democracy in Central America. He led the fight
   against U.S. aid to the Nicaraguan Contras and El Salvador's brutal
   death squads, driven by a sense that America had a moral responsibility
   to oppose the brutality and repression afflicting so many people in
   that region. He worked with religious groups and human rights activists
   at home, and leaders in the region like Oscar Arias, to build support
   for a peace process that ended military confrontation and opened the
   door for democratic elections throughout Central America.

   The tenacity and commitment to justice Bonior displayed in this
   campaign -- as well as his political acumen and organizational
   abilities -- impressed his colleagues. After serving as a chief deputy
   whip, Bonior was elected Democratic whip in 1991.

   When in the minority party of Congress, the whip is the second-ranking
   member in his or her party's caucus. As such, the whip is responsible
   for the party's legislative strategy in the House and for keeping
   members informed about upcoming issues and votes. Curiously, the term
   whip dates from historic times in England, when the person responsible
   for keeping hunting dogs on the track of their prey actually carried a
   small whip.

   Today, the Democratic whip relies on the power of persuasion to
   convince his colleagues on various issues, and is a principal spokesman
   for the party.

   Many of the young people in the 10th District learn about this and
   other aspects of the legislative process when Bonior brings together
   area high school students for the Student Leadership Summit, in Port
   Huron. In this annual event, students stage a model Congress dealing
   with real issues confronting the country.

   One of the topics they debate is a program Bonior strongly supports:
   expanding school to work programs that give high school students
   technical skills which land them good jobs right out of high school.

   He is also an ardent backer of the Hope Scholarship, the Lifetime
   Learning Tax Credit and expanded Pell Grants, because he believes
   expanding educational opportunity is the key to greater prosperity.

   Bonior believes nothing is more important than ensuring that our
   children have access to safe, disciplined schools with the highest
   quality teachers. He supports initiatives to reduce class size, and he
   is co-author of the SAVE Act, which would provide more guidance
   counselors, school safety officers and after school programs.

   In the early 1990s, Bonior became an advocate for the United
   States-Canada free trade agreement. Representing a state that is
   Canada's number one trading partner, he knew how good trade agreements
   have the potential to help the regional - and national - economy. He'd
   grown up watching both countries prosper through fair trade, and wanted
   to build upon that tradition.

   In addition to advocating the act's passage in Congress, Bonior saw
   there was a dire need to upgrade the physical links between Canada and
   the United States as well. So he brought together local, state, federal
   and Canadian officials to promote the construction of a new bridge
   across the St. Clair River that would parallel the existing Blue Water
   Bridge between Port Huron and Sarnia.

   In July of 1997, Bonior joined hundreds of thousands of area residents
   in an historic walk across the new bridge. Now in use by thousands of
   truckers and travelers, the bridge is already facilitating greater
   travel and commerce between the United States and Canada. But having
   seen what good trade agreements could do FOR working families, Bonior
   also sensed what a bad agreement could do TO working families. This
   understanding formed the foundation of his opposition to the North
   American Free Trade Agreement, which passed in 1993.

   Bonior's concerns about how NAFTA might harm working families also
   extended to people in Mexico. When he visited Tijuana and Ciudad Juarez
   in 1997, he saw the impact the agreement had. Factory workers were
   living in cardboard shanties, and their wages had fallen to less than a
   dollar an hour. Open sewage was flowing into the Rio Grande, and
   workers who complained about safety in their factories were being
   fired.

   Many of his concerns with NAFTA - that it undermined wages on both
   sides of the border, encouraged corporations to relocate where labor
   and environmental standards were weakest, and endangered this country's
   food supply - have since been documented by experts.

   Concern that our trade agreements do not adequately protect American
   jobs or promote environmental and human rights standards led Bonior to
   oppose a permanent trade deal for China.

   Bonior has also been at the forefront of efforts to raise the minimum
   wage, because he believes that everybody who works hard should be able
   to share the American dream. Putting more money in people's pockets is
   good for them, and good for the economy.

   Confounding nay-sayers who said it couldn't be done, Bonior built
   bi-partisan support for the 1996 vote to raise the wage to $5.15 an
   hour. He is leading House efforts to raise it again to $6.15 an hour by
   the year 2000. This would help restore some of the buying power
   minimum-wage earners have lost over the past 30 years.

   Congressman Bonior believes that every American has the right to
   affordable high quality healthcare. He has championed a Patient’s Bill
   of Rights to ensure that patients and their doctors are the ones who
   make medical decisions, not HMOs or insurance companies.

   Over the years, Bonior has fought to strengthen and protect Social
   Security and Medicare for our seniors. With the cost of prescription
   drugs skyrocketing, Bonior supports effort to allow seniors the option
   of obtaining prescription drug coverage through Medicare.

   When not focusing on his Congressional duties, Bonior enjoys reading
   fiction - including his favorite author, Wallace Stegner - and getting
   outdoors.

   In August of 1997, Bonior and his wife Judy walked some 300 miles up
   Michigan, from Mount Clemens to Mackinaw City. Walking by trails and
   back roads, they carried backpacks and camped out along the way. They
   capped their journey by joining thousands of others in the traditional
   Labor Day walk across the Mackinac Bridge, which joins Michigan's upper
   and lower peninsulas.

   David and Judy Bonior have a family of three adult children.
