http://www.fema.gov/diz01/d1391n56.htm

                                  Disaster Banner
        [ home | feedback | library | privacy policy | search | site help |
                                   site index ]

   Federal/State Disaster Assistance for New York World Trade Center Attack Tops
                               $894.1 Million

                               » En Español

                   For Complete Coverage of this Disaster

   New York, N.Y., January 9, 2002 -- Federal Emergency Management Agency
   (FEMA), U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and state of New York
   disaster assistance for the World Trade Center (WTC) attack has reached
   $894.1 million, state and federal disaster recovery officials announced
                                   today.

    Affected residents and business owners in the designated counties may
    apply for assistance by calling FEMA's toll-free registration number,
   1-800-462-9029, between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m., Monday through Friday. Those
      with a speech- or hearing-impairment may call TTY 1-800-462-7585.
      Operators can also provide information and referrals to programs,
       resources and services offered by other agencies and voluntary
     organizations. Translation services are available for all language
                                   groups.

      The New York State Crime Victims Board is providing assistance to
   defray the cost of medical bills, counseling, funeral expenses or lost
   earnings due to injury or loss of life from the attacks. The toll-free
               number is 1-800-247-8035 (TTY: 1-888-289-9747).

              Response and Recovery efforts as of Jan. 7, 2002

                            Individual Assistance
     * To date, more than 52,500 people affected by the attack have
       registered with FEMA for state and federal disaster assistance.
     * More than $285.5 million in Individual Assistance has been approved
       in the form of grants and loans. This includes temporary disaster
       housing assistance; mortgage and rental assistance; disaster food
       stamps; disaster unemployment assistance; individual and family
       grants; crisis counseling; SBA low-interest disaster loans to
       homeowners, renters and businesses; and crime victims' assistance.
          + FEMA has approved more than $25 million in disaster housing
            assistance grants for affected households to obtain alternate
            rental housing or to clean up residences made unlivable by the
            attack.
          + More than $3.8 million in disaster food stamps has been
            distributed to nearly 33,000 individuals who lost food, income
            or resources because of the attack.
          + Persons left unemployed by the disaster have filed more than
            4,800 claims for Disaster Unemployment Assistance (DUA) with
            the New York State Department of Labor Telephone Claims Line,
            1-888-209-8124. This program has provided more than $3.3
            million in assistance to workers and business owners out of
            work because of the disaster, as well as self-employed persons
            not normally covered by unemployment programs.
          + The state of New York has approved nearly $2.8 million in
            grants under the IFG Program to affected individuals and
            families to meet serious disaster-related needs not covered by
            other disaster assistance programs or insurance.
          + Crisis counseling grants in excess of $22.7 million have been
            committed to the state's mental health services network to
            provide counseling to victims of the attack and their
            families.
          + SBA has approved more than $217.1 million in low-interest
            loans to 2,700 borrowers for repair or replacement of
            disaster-damaged property to homes and businesses, and for
            working capital to help small businesses suffering economic
            injury as a result of the disaster.
          + The New York State Crime Victims Board (CVB) has provided
            nearly $6.5 million for the reimbursement of medical bills,
            personal property or mental health counseling for injury
            victims of the WTC attack.
     * To date, more than 65,100 people have visited the Disaster
       Assistance Service Centers (DASCs) to consult with representatives
       from city, state, federal and voluntary agencies on disaster
       assistance programs and to have questions answered about their
       applications. Representatives have provided information in 21
       different languages. The Disaster Assistance Service Center at Pier
       94 closed on Jan. 4 and reopened Jan. 7 at a new location: 51
       Chambers St. Hours of operation are Monday through Friday, 9 a.m.
       to 5 p.m. for 51 Chambers St.; Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 7
       p.m. for 141 Worth St.; and Saturday, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. for both
       locations.
     * FEMA's toll-free Helpline has received more than 41,400 calls from
       persons applying for additional assistance, inquiring about the
       status of their application or seeking information about recovery
       programs. The Helpline number is 1-800-525-0321 (TTY:
       1-800-462-7585).
     * FEMA currently has a total of 381 personnel working at the Disaster
       Field Office and the DASCs in New York.
     * FEMA's speakers bureau has received or coordinated requests for
       speakers for more than 150 meetings, with an estimated attendance
       of more than 18,000 people. Additional meetings are scheduled.
       Attendees are community members, economic development
       organizations, local political and advocacy groups, and building
       owners and managers.

                             Voluntary Agencies
   Highlights of the more than 200 voluntary agencies from community- and
     faith-based organizations, labor unions, national organizations and
   governmental agencies involved in relief and long-term recovery efforts
                                  include:
     * Members of the National Voluntary Organizations Active in Disaster
       (NVOAD) will meet Jan. 14 with local agencies currently active in
       the WTC disaster recovery effort. NVOAD is instituting an ongoing
       program to capture the best practices and lessons learned from
       disasters, and to generate a list of issues critical to the NVOAD
       movement.
     * The New York City Short-Term Services Coordination Group,
       representing agencies currently at the DASCs and additional
       agencies that provide financial assistance, is working to identify,
       quantify and address the gap in services to those who have lost
       employment above Canal Street.
     * The recently formed 9/11 United Services Group, a partnership of
       major New York City human service agencies, is coordinating a joint
       program for long-term recovery. This effort will include a
       comprehensive database of services provided and the assignment of
       personal case managers to help individuals navigate the myriad
       services available.
     * The New Jersey Interfaith Group and the New Jersey Recovery Group
       have coordinated their recovery efforts in that state including
       helping families access all available services and providing
       advocacy on behalf of undocumented and immigrant populations.
     * The New York Disaster Recovery Interfaith is an effort of over 30
       churches, synagogues, mosques and other faith-based organizations
       to coordinate emergency assistance programs for victims, sustain
       spiritual care and counseling beyond the emergency period and
       advocate equity for all those in need.

                              Public Assistance
    FEMA has provided more than $413.7 million for public assistance. The
     Public Assistance program provides federal grants to reimburse the
   costs of debris removal; emergency protective measures; and the repair,
       replacement or restoration of disaster-damaged, publicly owned
          facilities and certain private not-for-profit facilities.

                FEMA-Funded Assistance Through Other Agencies
     * FEMA has funded nearly $180 million through other agencies
       including U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) and the Department
       of Health and Human Services to assist in the response effort.
     * USACE continues to provide technical assistance to the
       debris-processing operation. More than 963,000 tons of debris have
       been removed to the Staten Island landfill.

                       Urban Search And Rescue (USAR)
      FEMA provided $15.2 million toward Urban Search and Rescue (USAR)
    efforts at Ground Zero. For the WTC attack, USAR mobilized a total of
    1,260 personnel to Ground Zero. Twenty teams from 14 states assisted
     fire and police personnel in searching for victims in the immediate
     aftermath of the collapse of the WTC towers. The first wave of USAR
   teams was activated on September 11; the last USAR team was released on
                                   Oct. 7.


    Updated: January 10, 2002

                 FOOTER: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
