http://sti.soicc.ca.gov/Publications/CoreCareer.pdf

   Core subjects and your career Students often wonder why they must study
   subjects that seem unrelated to their career goals. Why does a future
   engineer need to take English classes? How does math help an air
   traffic controller direct planes? When do chefs or cooks use science
   and technology in the kitchen? The three articles that follow-"English
   and your career," "Math and your career," and erry Wild Studio "Science
   and your career"-explain the im- © The T Librarians explain how library
   patrons can find the information portance of these subjects in every
   student's they need. career preparation. For students with an inter-
   est or aptitude in a subject, the articles explain the link between
   that subject and a number of careers. Each article also describes how
   we use English, math, and science in everyday life and lists
   occupations requiring various levels of competence. Of course, students
   should consult detailed references, such as the Occupational Outlook
   Handbook, in making their career decisions. But these articles may
   serve as reminders that a good foundation is essential for the frame-
   work that succeeds. erry Wild Studio © The T All teachers must
   communicate well with students. Teachers who instruct in a specific
   subject need expertise in that area. 26 Occupational Outlook Quarterly
   G Summer 1999 ainbow Photography © R Architects must describe their
   designs to clients in terms they can understand. English and your
   career by Nancy Saffer Reading and writing are basic skills we begin
   learning at a young age. So why do we need to con- tinue studying them
   in high school and beyond? Taking English classes improves our
   communica- tion skills, which are essential to every job. Communication
   is the ability to understand in- formation other people give us and to
   have other people understand what we tell them. In addition to being
   fundamental for most jobs, the ability to communicate clearly and
   effectively can help us in every area of our lives. Every time we write
   a letter, make a phone call, or give someone instructions, we use our
   communication skills. Studying English helps us develop our reading,
   writing, speaking, and listening skills, all of which play some part in
   our everyday lives. © James M. Mejuto Photography Social workers need
   excellent interpersonal skills to help clients Nancy Saffer is an
   economist formerly with the Office of cope with problems, such as
   disabling illness, substance abuse, Employment Projections, BLS.
   financial crisis, unplanned pregnancy, and child or spousal abuse.
   Occupational Outlook Quarterly G Summer 1999 27 Taking English in high
   school and college In high school English classes, most stu- dents
   study basics such as vocabulary, spelling, composition, reading, and
   gram- Advanced communication mar. Learning how to construct sentences
   Actors, directors, and producers and paragraphs lays the groundwork for
   Administrative services managers writing effective letters, essays,
   term pa- Adult education teachers pers, and reports. English classes
   also in- Agricultural scientists clude exposure to literature, which
   Biological and medical scientists teaches students to analyze other
   people's Chemists words and provokes thought by providing Engineering,
   science, and computer systems managers insight into the human
   condition. Foresters and conservation scientists Geologists and
   geophysicists Government chief executives and legislators Advanced
   communication Lawyers and judges requires a strong ability to
   Librarians Management analysts and consultants communicate both orally
   and in Manufacturers' and wholesale sales representatives writing;
   college-level English Marketing, advertising, and public relations
   managers Meteorologists courses are recommended. Optometrists
   Pharmacists College-level English courses are de- Physician assistants
   signed to refine the skills learned in high Physicians school. Subjects
   such as literature, writ- Physicists and astronomers ing, and grammar
   are taught as individual Podiatrists classes. These courses provide
   additional Psychologists study and practice of communication. Public
   relations specialists Radio and television announcers and newscasters
   How English relates to careers Reporters and correspondents You may
   think English classes only relate School teachers, kindergarten,
   elementary, and secondary to a few occupations, such as writing or
   Social scientists editing. But every job requires workers to Social
   workers understand instructions quickly and to ex- Special education
   teachers plain problems to supervisors and other Speech-language
   pathologists and audiologists workers. Urban and regional planners Good
   communication is essential for Veterinarians most occupations, even
   those that require Writers and editors little interaction with others.
   A problem cited by employers of engineers, for ex- ample, is that some
   technically competent workers are unable to explain what they are
   doing, to understand or explain what their part of a project is, or to
   relate their task to what others are doing. Many occupations require
   frequent communication. Sales workers must be 28 Occupational Outlook
   Quarterly G Summer 1999 able to speak effectively both on the tele-
   phone and in person to present their company's products well. Lawyers
   and managers need to express themselves clearly and to analyze large
   amounts of Intermediate communication information to be successful.
   Health care Adjusters, investigators, and collectors workers must be
   able to understand their Architects patients' questions and concerns
   and to Clerical supervisors and managers make patients understand how
   to main- Construction and building inspectors tain their health.
   Psychologists and psy- Construction and building managers chiatrists
   must be able to listen and com- Designers municate effectively.
   Employment interviewers Financial managers Intermediate communication
   Health information technicians Health services managers requires the
   ability to accurately Hotel managers and assistants give and follow
   instructions, to Industrial production managers Insurance agents and
   brokers persuade people to a particular Library technicians point of
   view, and to write in an Licensed practical nurses Paralegals organized
   and grammatically Pharmacists correct manner; both high Physical
   therapists Police, detectives, and special agents school and college
   English Private detectives and investigators courses are helpful in
   Property managers Real estate agents, brokers, and appraisers
   developing these skills. Receptionists Recreation workers Developing
   communication skills Recreational therapists The best way to begin
   developing com- Registered nurses munication skills is to take high
   school Respiratory therapists English classes. Reading outside of class
   Restaurant and food service managers is also a good way to develop
   those skills Retail sales worker supervisors and managers and to build
   an effective vocabulary. In Retail sales workers addition, getting
   involved in extracurricu- Secretaries lar activities improves
   communication Securities and financial services sales representatives
   because of the interaction required. Some Service sales representatives
   activities target specific abilities: Joining Social and human service
   assistants the school newspaper or yearbook staff is Travel agents a
   good way to work on writing skills; the Travel guides debate team is
   ideal for developing speak- ing skills. The accompanying lists show
   occupa- tions that require advanced, intermediate, or basic
   communication skills. Advanced communication requires a strong ability
   to communicate both orally and in writ- Occupational Outlook Quarterly
   G Summer 1999 29 ing; college-level English courses are rec- ommended.
   Intermediate communication requires the ability to accurately give and
   follow instructions, to persuade people to a particular point of view,
   and to write in Basic communication an organized and grammatically
   correct Bank tellers manner; both high school and college Busdrivers
   English courses are helpful in developing Cashiers these skills. Basic
   communication re- Correctional officers quires the ability to interact
   with others Counter and rental clerks and to follow simple oral and
   written in- Court reporters, medical transcriptionists, and
   stenographers structions; high school English classes Dispatchers are
   helpful but not essential in developing Flight attendants this level of
   skill. Funeral directors General office clerks Homemaker-home health
   aides Basic communication requires Hotel and motel desk clerks the
   ability to interact with Interviewing and new accounts clerks Loan
   clerks and credit authorizers, checkers, and clerks others and to
   follow simple oral Nursing aides and psychiatric aides and written
   instructions; high Occupational therapy assistants and aides Physical
   and corrective therapy assistants and aides school English classes are
   Postal clerks and mail carriers helpful but not essential in Prepress
   workers Preschool teachers and child care workers developing this level
   of skill. Proofreaders Receptionists For more information on the level
   of Reservation and transportation ticket agents and travel clerks
   education and training needed for specific Routing and receiving clerks
   occupations, consult the Occupational Service representatives Outlook
   Handbook, available in most li- Taxidrivers and chauffeurs braries,
   career centers, and placement of- Telephone operators fices and on the
   Internet at http:// Title searchers stats.bls.gov/ocohome.htm.
   Typesetters Typists, work processors, and data entry keyers Visual
   artists 30 Occupational Outlook Quarterly G Summer 1999 Math and your
   career by Nancy Saffer Math skills help us cope with today's complex
   world. We use math to carry out everyday tasks ainbow Photography such
   as balancing a checkbook, shopping for gro- © R ceries, cooking, and
   creating a personal budget. Carpenters use algebra and geometry to
   calculate the proper angles at Other important skills we learn from
   studying math which to cut building materials. include problem solving,
   analysis, and estimating. And math knowledge is essential for earning a
   liv- ing in many occupations, including most higher- paying
   occupations. There are about 15,500 mathematicians em- ployed in the
   United States, but millions of workers have jobs in which mathematics
   is a necessary part. In fact, almost all jobs require at least some
   under- standing of basic mathematics. For example, car- penters must be
   able to measure lengths and angles when installing wood trim.
   Machinists need to un- derstand and manipulate angles and dimensions.
   Loan officers must determine applicants' debt-equity ratios before
   approving mortgage applications. And math skills are required for any
   science, engineer- ing, computer, and technical occupation. Math is
   also an important part of a well-rounded education. Most high schools
   require students to take at least 2 years of math to graduate. And most
   colleges require some proficiency in math for all erry Wild Studio
   applicants, regardless of their intended majors. © The T Economists,
   economics professors, and marketing research analysts describe Nancy
   Saffer is an economist formerly with the Office of economic and
   commercial activity using advanced statistical methods. Employment
   Projections, BLS. Occupational Outlook Quarterly G Summer 1999 31
   Careers for people interested in math Although most occupations require
   basic math skills, some jobs rely on math more heavily than others. If
   you have taken many math courses, have a high aptitude for math, or
   major in math in college, you might be interested in some of the
   follow- ing occupations. Actuaries. Actuaries answer questions about
   future risk, formulate investment strategies, and make pricing
   decisions. They may design insurance, financial, and pension plans by
   calculating prob- abilities of events such as sickness, dis-
   Occupations in the advanced or theoretical math ability, or death based
   on known statistics. A bachelor's degree in mathematics or skills
   category require an understanding of more statistics is required for an
   entry-level po- complex math concepts such as calculus and sition in a
   life or casualty insurance com- pany. Applicants must be proficient in
   linear algebra. several mathematics subjects, including calculus,
   probability, and statistics, and have passed the beginning actuarial
   exams. Advanced or theoretical mathematics Mathematicians.
   Mathematicians use Actuaries their mathematical knowledge and com-
   Agricultural scientists putational tools to create mathematical
   Architects theories and techniques. They use these Biological and
   medical scientists theories and techniques to solve eco- Chemists
   nomic, scientific, engineering, and busi- Computer scientists, computer
   engineers, and ness problems. Mathematicians often systems analysts
   work with computers to solve problems, Economists and marketing
   research analysts develop models, analyze relationships be-
   Engineering, science, and data processing managers tween variables, and
   process large Engineers amounts of data. Foresters and conservation
   scientists Mathematicians need a minimum of a Geologists,
   geophysicists, and oceanographers bachelor's degree. People with
   bachelor's Mathematicians degrees may assist senior mathematicians
   Mathematics teachers (secondary school and college) or work on less
   advanced problems. Most Meteorologists mathematicians in the private
   sector need Operations research analysts a master's or doctoral degree.
   Physicists and astronomers Operations research analysts. Opera- Social
   scientists tions research analysts are problem solv- Statisticians ers
   who usually work for large organiza- tions or businesses. They help
   these organizations operate more efficiently by applying mathematics
   principles to organi- zational issues. They work on problems 32
   Occupational Outlook Quarterly G Summer 1999 Occupations in the applied
   math skills category include those in which workers need to understand
   mathematical concepts and be able to apply them to their work; in these
   occupations, knowledge of statistics and trigonometry may also such as
   facilities layout, personnel schedules, forecasting, and distribution
   be needed. systems. They often use mathematical models to explain how
   things happen within an organization and to determine Applied
   mathematics how to organize things more effectively. Accountants and
   auditors Most employers prefer to hire analysts Administrative services
   managers who have a master's degree in operations Aircraft pilots
   research, industrial engineering, or man- Budget analysts agement
   science. Chiropractors Statisticians. Statisticians collect, ana-
   College and university faculty (nonmathematics) lyze, and present
   numerical data and de- Computer programmers sign, carry out, and
   interpret the results of Construction and building inspectors surveys
   and experiments. Statisticians use Construction contractors and
   managers mathematics techniques to predict things Cost estimators such
   as economic conditions or popula- Dentists tion growth, to develop
   quality control Dispensing opticians tests for manufactured products,
   and to Drafters help business managers or government Education
   administrators officials make decisions and evaluate the Engineering
   technicians results of new programs. Farmers and farm managers For most
   beginning jobs in statistics, a Financial managers bachelor's degree in
   mathematics or sta- General managers and top executives tistics is the
   minimum requirement. Many Government chief executives and legislators
   research positions require a master's or Industrial production managers
   doctoral degree. Insurance agents and brokers Insurance underwriters
   Careers requiring Loan officers and counselors strong math skills
   Management analysts and consultants Some other jobs require a strong
   back- Optometrists ground in math. The following occupa- Pharmacists
   tions are among those in which strong Physician assistants math skills
   are very important. Physicians Physical and life scientists. Physical
   Podiatrists and life scientists, including biologists, Psychologists
   physicists, chemists, and geologists, work Real estate agents, brokers,
   and appraisers to discover the basic principles of how the Respiratory
   therapists earth, universe, and living things operate. School teachers,
   kindergarten, elementary, and secondary The ability to use mathematical
   relation- Science technicians ships to understand and describe the
   Securities and financial services sales representatives workings of
   nature is vital. Special education teachers Most scientists need a
   doctoral degree Surveyors and mapping scientists in their field,
   especially those who work Urban and regional planners in basic
   research, but some scientists in ap- Veterinarians plied research may
   need only a bachelor's or master's degree. Social scientists. Social
   scientists per- form research that helps us understand Occupational
   Outlook Quarterly G Summer 1999 33 how individuals and groups make
   deci- sions, exercise power, and respond to Occupations in the
   practical math category may change. Many social scientists, especially
   economists, describe behavior with math- require algebra and geometry
   in addition to ematical models. Also, much of social general math
   skills. scientists' research depends on gathering and understanding
   statistics that describe human behavior. As with physical and life
   scientists, Practical application of mathematics many jobs involving
   research require a Air traffic controllers doctorate. However, many
   social science Aircraft mechanics, including engine specialists jobs
   involving applied research require Automobile mechanics only a
   bachelor's or master's degree. Automotive body repairers Computer
   scientists and systems ana- Blue collar worker supervisors lysts.
   Workers in computer science occu- Boilermakers pations design computer
   systems and per- Broadcast technicians form research to improve these
   systems. Carpenters They may also program computers. Ad- Concrete
   masons and terrazzo workers vanced mathematics skills might not be
   Diesel mechanics necessary for computer programming; Dietitians and
   nutritionists however, training in mathematics helps Electric power
   generating plant operators and power develop an ability to think
   logically-a distributors and dispatchers necessary qualification for
   working with Electricians computers. Electronic equipment repairers
   Most of these workers have bachelor's Elevator installers and repairers
   degrees in computer science, information Farm equipment mechanics
   systems, or computer engineering. Some Funeral directors research
   positions require a master's or General maintenance mechanics doctoral
   degree. Heating, air-conditioning, and refrigeration technicians
   Engineers. Engineers use the theories Industrial machinery repairers
   and principles of mathematics to help Inspectors, testers, and graders
   solve technical problems. They also use Jewelers mathematics to design
   machinery, prod- Landscape architects ucts, or systems. Most
   entry-level engi- Machinists and tool programmers neering jobs require
   a bachelor's degree. Millwrights Science and engineering technicians.
   Mobile heavy equipment mechanics Science and engineering technicians
   use Motorcycle, boat, and small-engine repairers the principles and
   theories of science, en- Ophthalmic laboratory technicians gineering,
   and mathematics to solve tech- Photographers and camera operators nical
   problems in research and develop- Purchasers and buyers ment,
   manufacturing, and other areas. Sheetmetal workers Their jobs are more
   limited in scope and Stationary engineers more practically oriented
   than those of Tool-and-die makers scientists and engineers, but
   technicians Water and wastewater treatment plant operators rely heavily
   on mathematics techniques Welders, cutters, and welding machine
   operators in their work. There are many different ways of qualifying
   for a position as a science and engineering technician, but most jobs
   re- 34 Occupational Outlook Quarterly G Summer 1999 quire at least some
   training beyond earn- ing a high school diploma. Other careers that
   require Occupations in the general math skills category math skills
   Math skills are useful in a number of require basic arithmetic such as
   addition, other occupations. For example, most subtraction,
   multiplication, and division. jobs in the financial industry use math
   skills. Bank tellers must have strong math skills to be both accurate
   and efficient. Accountants need proficiency in math to General
   mathematics calculate and analyze numbers. Air traffic Bank tellers
   controllers need to understand maps and Billing clerks and billing
   machine operators geometry when directing planes. Manag- Bindery
   workers ers of all kinds use math skills; for ex- Bookkeeping,
   accounting, and auditing clerks ample, hotel managers and assistants
   Bricklayers and stonemasons must be able to estimate costs for items
   Brokerage clerks and statement clerks the hotel needs to order, such as
   food and Cashiers drinks. Counter and rental clerks Drywall workers and
   lathers Preparing for careers in math Glaziers The accompanying lists
   show occupa- Interviewing and new accounts clerks tions that require
   different levels of math Library assistants and bookmobile drivers
   skills: Advanced, applied, practical, or Loan clerks and credit
   authorizers, checkers, and clerks general. Occupations in the advanced
   or Manufacturers' and wholesale sales representatives theoretical math
   skills category require an Medical assistants understanding of more
   complex math Metalworking and plastic-working machine operators
   concepts such as calculus and linear alge- Order clerks bra.
   Occupations in the applied math Payroll and timekeeping clerks skills
   category include those in which Plasterers workers need to understand
   mathematical Postal clerks and mail carriers concepts and be able to
   apply them to Precision assemblers their work; in these occupations,
   knowl- Prepress workers edge of statistics and trigonometry may
   Printing press operators also be needed. Occupations in the practi-
   Private detectives and investigators cal math category may require
   algebra Reservation and transportation ticket agents and and geometry
   in addition to general math travel clerks skills. Occupations in the
   general math Roofers skills category require basic arithmetic
   Secretaries such as addition, subtraction, multiplica- Stock clerks
   tion, and division. Structural and reinforcing ironworkers For more
   information on the level of Taxidrivers and chauffeurs education and
   training needed for specific Teacher aides occupations, consult the
   Occupational Tilesetters Outlook Handbook, available in most li-
   Traffic, shipping, and receiving clerks braries, career centers, and
   placement of- fices and on the Internet at http://
   stats.bls.gov/ocohome.htm. Occupational Outlook Quarterly G Summer 1999
   35 Science and your career by Nancy Saffer Studying science helps us
   understand the discov- erry Wild Studio eries that affect our daily
   lives. Every time we use a telephone, television, or computer, we are
   using a © The T product of science. We use our knowledge of sci- Pilots
   apply math and science whey they assess weather reports and create
   flight plans. ence when making decisions about our health and diet.
   Even common hobbies, such as cooking, gar- dening, and photography,
   rely on scientific prin- ciples. By studying science, we learn how the
   universe works; we learn to observe, classify, measure, pre- dict,
   interpret, and communicate data; and we de- velop the ability to think
   logically and solve prob- lems. The skills and knowledge that come from
   studying science are important in many occupa- tions. There are almost
   400,000 scientists employed in the United States, but 21 million
   workers use sci- ence on the job. For example, mechanics use scien-
   tific procedures when repairing or testing equip- ment. Physical
   therapists use biology and physics to rehabilitate patients.
   Journalists use scientific knowledge when writing about technology,
   health, or the environment. And scientific problem solving skills are
   necessary for most computer occupations. Science courses are also
   important if you want an advanced education. College admissions
   officers © Kathy Sloane Photographic Arts Physicans employ their
   extensive knowledge of biology and biochemistry in Nancy Saffer is an
   economist formerly with the Office of treating illness. Employment
   Projections, BLS. 36 Occupational Outlook Quarterly G Summer 1999 often
   favor individuals who have taken science classes. Many colleges require
   at least 2 years of high school science courses, regardless of your
   intended ma- jor. If you want to be admitted into scien- tific and
   technical programs, you will probably need 3 or 4 years of high school
   science. Careers for people interested in science Although science
   skills are helpful in many occupations, some occupations rely heavily
   on science. If you have a strong Advanced science Agricultural
   scientists Advanced science occupations Architects Archivists and
   curators require a thorough knowledge of Biological and medical
   scientists scientific principles; a bachelor's Chemists Chiropractors
   degree with a number of college Computer scientists, computer
   engineers, and science courses is usually the systems analysts Dentists
   minimum requirement. But Engineering, science, and computer systems
   managers many of these positions require Engineers Forensic scientists
   a master's or doctoral degree. Foresters and conservation scientists
   Geologists and geophysicists interest in science, you might want to
   con- Landscape architects sider one of the following occupations.
   Meteorologists Biologists. Biologists study living or- Optometrists
   ganisms and their relationship to each Pharmacists other and the
   environment. Most biolo- Physical therapists gists specialize in one
   branch of biol- Physician assistants ogy-for example, microbiology, the
   Physicians study of microscopic organisms; zoology, Physicists and
   astronomers the study of animals; or botany, the study Podiatrists of
   plants. These branches are then subdi- Respiratory therapists vided.
   For example, types of zoologists Teachers, secondary and college
   (sciences) include mammalogists, who study mam- Veterinarians mals;
   ichthyologists, who study fish; orni- thologists, who study birds; and
   herpe- tologists, who study reptiles and amphibians. Chemists. Chemists
   search for new chemicals and find uses for existing ones. Their
   discoveries might be used to pro- Occupational Outlook Quarterly G
   Summer 1999 37 duce medicines or create stronger building materials.
   Some chemists specialize in one branch of chemistry. Biochemists, for
   example, study the chemical composition of living things. Physical
   chemists exam- ine the physical characteristics of atoms, molecules,
   and chemical reactions. Physicists. Physicists study the behav- ior of
   matter, the generation and transfer Applied science of energy, and the
   interaction of matter Aircraft mechanics, including engine specialists
   and energy. They study areas such as grav- Aircraft pilots ity, nuclear
   energy, electromagnetism, Broadcast technicians electricity, light, and
   heat. They might ex- Cardiovascular technologists and technicians amine
   the structure of the atom, or design Clinical laboratory technologists
   and technicians research equipment such as lasers. Physi- College and
   university faculty cists might also work in inspection, test-
   Construction and building inspectors ing, or other production-related
   jobs. Construction contractors and managers Dental hygienists Dental
   laboratory technicians Applied science occupations Dietitians and
   nutritionists require workers to understand Dispensing opticians
   Drafters scientific principles and apply Electroneurodiagnostic
   technologists them to their work; some Emergency medical technicians
   Engineering technicians (all specialties) posthigh school science
   training Health information technicians is needed. Health services
   managers Licensed practical nurses Nuclear medicine technologists
   Agricultural scientists. Some types of Occupational therapists
   scientists work to improve agriculture. Occupational therapy assistants
   and aides Crop scientists study the genetic breeding Photographers and
   camera operators and management of field crops. Soil sci- Physical
   therapists entists use soil physics, soil chemistry, Psychologists and
   soil microbiology to enhance soil fer- Radiologic technologists tility
   and the growth of plants. Agrono- Recreational therapists mists develop
   practical applications for Registered nurses discoveries in plant and
   soil science to Respiratory therapists produce high quality food.
   Science technicians Other scientists. There are many other Electronic
   semiconductor processors branches of science. Geologists study the
   Speech-language pathologists and audiologists history and composition
   of our planet, in- Surgical technologists cluding volcanoes and
   earthquakes. Surveyors and mapping scientists Oceanographers study the
   oceans and their movements. Meteorologists study the atmosphere, and
   some make weather predictions. Astronomers study the uni- verse, trying
   to gain knowledge about the stars, planets, and galaxies. 38
   Occupational Outlook Quarterly G Summer 1999 Practical application of
   science Automotive body repairers Although many scientists specialize,
   Automotive mechanics most need to have knowledge in more Barbers and
   cosmetologists than one branch of science. Agronomists, Boilermakers
   for example, combine their knowledge of Chefs, cooks, and other kitchen
   workers biology, geology, chemistry, and math- Dental assistants
   ematics to find better ways to grow food Diesel mechanics and conserve
   soil. They may also work Electricians closely with other scientists,
   such as mi- Electronic equipment repairers crobiologists, biochemists,
   meteorolo- Elevator installers and repairers gists, and entomologists.
   Farm equipment mechanics Engineers. Engineers use the prin- Farmers and
   farm managers ciples and theories of chemistry, physics, Firefighting
   occupations and mathematics to solve practical prob- Fishers, hunters,
   and trappers lems. They develop new products and im- Funeral directors
   prove systems and processes. Engineers General maintenance mechanics
   design computers, generators, helicop- Heating, air-conditioning, and
   refrigeration technicians ters, spacecraft, and other devices. Engi-
   Home appliance and power tool repairers Industrial machinery repairers
   Practical application occupations Jewelers Landscaping, groundskeeping,
   nursery, greenhouse, and require familiarity with the basic lawn
   service occupations principles of biology, chemistry, Machinists and
   tool programmers Medical assistants or physics; high school courses
   Millwrights in these areas should be Mobile heavy equipment mechanics
   Motorcycle, boat, and small-engine mechanics sufficient. Nursing aides
   and psychiatric aides Ophthalmic laboratory technicians Pest
   controllers neering has many specialties. The largest Pharmacy
   technicians are mechanical engineering, electrical Photographic process
   workers and electronics engineering, and civil en- Physical and
   corrective therapy assistants gineering. Plumbers and pipefitters
   Mechanical engineers design and de- Prepress workers velop
   power-producing machines, such as Printing press operators internal
   combustion and rocket engines. Stationary engineers Others design and
   develop power-using Structural and reinforcing iron workers machines,
   such as refrigeration systems. Tool-and-die makers Electrical and
   electronics engineers Urban and regional planners design, develop,
   test, and supervise the Vending machine servicers and repairers
   production of electrical equipment. This Water and wastewater treatment
   plant operators includes computers, automobile ignition Water
   transportation occupations systems, and wiring and lighting in build-
   Welders, cutters, and welding machine operators ings. They also design
   communications, video, and radar equipment. Civil engineers design and
   supervise the building of roads, bridges, tunnels, buildings, airports,
   harbors, and water sup- ply, flood control, and sewage systems.
   Occupational Outlook Quarterly G Summer 1999 39 content of foods.
   Farmers and horticultur- ists use fertilizers and pesticides, the
   products of chemistry. Electricians apply the principles of physics
   when wiring a building, and aircraft pilots use physics and meteorology
   to plot flight paths and fly planes. Preparing for careers in science
   Careers in science require orderly think- ing, systematic work habits,
   and persever- ance. If you are a student who is inter- ested in
   scientific and technical careers, you should take as many science
   classes in high school as possible. Basic courses in earth science,
   biology, chemistry, and physics will form a solid foundation for
   further study. A strong background in mathematics is also important for
   those who want to pursue scientific, engineer- ing, and
   technology-related careers. The lists show occupations requiring
   different levels of scientific skill: Ad- vanced, applied, or practical
   application. erry Wild Studio Advanced science occupations require a
   thorough knowledge of scientific prin- © The T ciples; a bachelor's
   degree with a number Understanding the physical properties of materials
   helps firefighters combat of college science courses is usually the
   different types of fires. minimum requirement. Many of these po-
   sitions require a master's or doctoral de- Technicians and
   technologists. Sci- Other careers that use science gree. Applied
   science occupations require ence and engineering technicians carry
   Science skills are useful in many other workers to understand
   scientific prin- out the plans of scientists and engi- occupations. For
   example, there are nu- ciples and apply them to their work; some
   neers-setting up experiments, record- merous occupations in health
   care, and all posthigh school science training is ing results, or
   testing product quality. require knowledge of biology and other needed.
   Practical application occupations They may also design simple experi-
   sciences. Physicians, nurses, dentists, vet- require familiarity with
   the basic prin- ments. These workers use testing and erinarians, and
   emergency medical tech- ciples of biology, chemistry, or physics;
   measuring devices and have a solid un- nicians are just a few of the
   health occu- high school courses in these areas should derstanding of
   laboratory techniques. pations that require an understanding of be
   sufficient. Other technician occupations in- science. For more
   information on the level of clude drafters, who prepare technical Many
   workers use chemistry and education and training needed for specific
   drawings of structures and products; physics in their work. Chefs and
   cooks occupations, consult the Occupational broadcast technicians, who
   install, re- use chemistry when creating recipes and Outlook Handbook,
   available in most li- pair, and operate radio and television preparing
   food, because cooking ingredi- braries, career centers, and placement
   of- equipment; and air-conditioning, re- ents are chemicals. Dietitians
   and nutri- fices and on the Internet at http:// frigeration, and
   heating technicians. tionists are also concerned with chemical
   www.stats.bls.gov/ocohome.htm. 40 Occupational Outlook Quarterly G
   Summer 1999
