http://www.igpp.lanl.gov/AGU.html



Can Volcanically Induced Ozone Loss Resolve Discrepancies between Surface and
Tropopsheric Temperature Records?

   Presented at the Fall AGU Meeting
   December 16, 1999

   Charles Keller
   Tracy Light
   Manvendra Dubey
   Howard Hanson

  Abstract

   Careful study of satellite temperatures (1978-1999) in the lower
   troposphere (MSUd 2LT) shows that they argree rather well with surface
   temperatures until 1992 when there occurs a sudden drop in the
   satellite record of about 0.2ºC which persists through 1997. This drop
   is concurrent with large changes in the troposphere and stratosphere
   caused by the large eruption of Mt. Pinatubo (June 1991). It is very
   possible that the resultant dramatic cooling of the lower stratosphere
   (0.6ºCÑMSU-4)) was responsible for a gradient in the tropospheric
   cooling with the upper troposphere cooling more than the lower
   troposphere. To study this we constructed temperature anomalies for a
   UT from NCEP reanalysis data in the pressure range 250-500 mb and an LT
   in the range 600-925 mb. Comparison of the temperature records for
   these two with the surface shows that they respond strongly to
   variations in ENSO with the UT alternately cooling and warming more
   than the LT between La Niña and El Niño respectively excepting after
   the Pinatubo eruption when dramatic cooling relative to the surface
   occurs despite significant El Niños. The conclusion that strong cooling
   in the lower stratosphere affected tropospheric temperatures is
   supported by several recent modeling results.

  Introduction

   Most comparisions of satellite and surface temperature data have
   focussed on the differences in overall warming trends between the two.
   However, careful examination of the satellite record (MSUd 2LT) shows
   it to be essentially two separate records--one prior to 1992, and one
   afterwards. A year-to-year comparison with surface data (FIGURE 1)
   shows essential agreement through 1991, but then the satellite record
   drops approximately 0.2ºC wrt the surface in six months. For the next
   five years it follows the surface record albeit at this constant
   offset. Thus, if one were compare warming trends before and after the
   this change, both would be found to agree with those of the surface.
   The question remains, why did the middle troposphere suddenly cool
   relative to the surface in late 1991 and remain that way until the
   great 1997-98 El Niño (when it warmed far more than the surface). In
   seeking some cooling mechanism that would affect the upper troposphere
   more than the surface we noticed the dramatic cooling of the lower
   stratosphere following the Pinatubo eruption. The stratosphere
   initially warmed due to absorption of sunlight by the
   volcanically-injected aerosols. However, as the aerosols settled out,
   the dramatic reduction in ozone resulted in marked cooling which lasted
   for several years especially in the southern hemisphere (FIGURE 2).

   We wondered if this cooling might not affect temperatures in the
   troposphere. We hypothesized that, it this were the case the higher
   layers of the troposphere would be affected most, lower layers next,
   and perhaps surface least.

   [AGU_1.gif]

   Figure 1. Comparison of yearly temperature anomalies between satellite
   (MSUd 2LT) and surface (IPCC). Note dramatic difference after 1991.

   [AGU_2.gif]

   Figure 2. Comparison of temperature anomalies in the lower stratosphere
   (MSU 4) with SAGE II lower stratospheric ozone concentrations.

  Approach

   In order to test this idea we collected NCEP reanalysis data
   (1979-1999) into two layers: 1. upper troposphere, UT, from 250 to 500
   mb pressure heights 2. lower troposphere, LT, from 600 to 925 mb. We
   then looked at the differences in temperature anomalies among the three
   resulting records (UT, LT, Surface). The idea was to look for verticle
   gradients in heating. For instance, if the troposphere is being cooled
   by the stratosphere, one might expect the upper troposphere to show
   this effect more than the surface.

  Results

   In addition to finding substantiation for our post-1992 cooling
   hyposthesis, we discovered that the relative rates of warming and
   cooling in the troposphere were also well correlated with interdecadal
   variability of ENSO. This correlation can be seen best when the
   differences in temperature anomalies are plotted vs time. FIGURE 3 is a
   plot of LT--Surface temperature anomalies. For temporal comparision the
   figure also shows the satellite (MSU4) record of lower troposphere
   temperature anomaly and a multi-variate Index of ENSO activity. FIGURE
   4 is the same plot excepting it shows the difference in temperature
   anomalies between UT and LT. (Green vertical lines indicate the dates
   of the eruptions of El Chichon (1982) and Mt. Pinatubo (1991). FIGURE 5
   is the same plot as FIGURE 3 excepting the NCEP LT is replaced by MSUd
   2LT satellite data. This record is given here simply for comparison
   with the NCEP results. It essentially covers the entire troposphere,
   encompassing both NCEP regions that we defined as LT and UT.

   [AGU_3.gif]

   Figure 3. NCEP LT - Surface temperature anomalies. For temporal
   comparision the figure also shows the satellite (MSU4) record of lower
   troposphere temperature anomaly and a multi-variate Index of ENSO
   activity.

   [AGU_4.gif]

   Figure 4. The same plot as Figure 3 excepting it shows the difference
   in temperature anomalies between NCEP UT and LT. (Green vertical lines
   indicate the dates of the eruptions of El Chichon (1982) and Mt.
   Pinatubo (1991).

   [AGU_5.gif]

   Fig. 5. Same plot as FIGURE 3 excepting the NCEP LT is replaced by MSUd
   2LT satellite data.

   All these plots show clearly that, prior to the Mt. Pinatubo
   eruption,the amounts of tropospheric warming (El Niño) and cooling (La
   Niña) were a function of altitude with the UT warming and cooling the
   most, the LT less, and the surface the least. Thus, the amplitude of
   the ENSO-induced warming and cooling increases with height.

   However, after the Pinatubo eruption this correlation temporarily
   diminishes markedly. Even though the years following are characterized
   by three successive El Niños, the UT cools relative to the LT, which
   cools relative to the surface. In addition this effect occurs in a
   stepwise fashion immediately following the eruption and remains
   relatively constant until the great El Niño of 1997-98, when the
   previous ENSO correlation reappears.

   Thus, immediately after the Pinatubo eruption we see both a large
   stepwise cooling of the satellite temperatures vs the surface and also
   an equally abrupt end to the ENSO correlation with relative warming and
   cooling in the troposphere as a function of height. Both of these
   effects suggest some outside additional forcing as the cause. We
   believe this forcing is the onset of a dramatically cooled lower
   stratosphere whose effect is being felt below in the troposphere.
   Inspection of the SAGE II record of stratospheric ozone concentrations
   during this time suggests the cooling mechanism. Immediately following
   the eruption, ozone concentrations dropped in a stepwise fashion and
   remained abnormally low for several years. Although concentrations in
   the northern hemisphere recovered by 1997, those in the SH have
   remained lower. Lower stratospheric temperatures reflect this
   hemispheric difference.

   Modeling Support

   While many climate simulations have included stratospheric ozone
   concentrations in some way, very few have attempted to include the
   magnitude of the observed reductions observed after Pinatubo. Hansen et
   al. 1997 considered the effect on the troposphere from such an ozone
   reduction. They found that indeed a effect similar to what we have
   observed would take place.

   In another study Bengtsson et al. 1998 attempted to model the actual
   results of the Pinatubo eruption in a coupled O/A model. While the
   ozone depletion was only approximated, the results show clearly that
   the resulting cooling produced the observed effect though only
   accounting for about half of it.

   Future Work

   We are planning to introduce a fairly exact table of stratospheric
   ozone concentrations (SAGE II data) into the coupled O/A GCM, PCM, at
   NCAR. Thus, we would simulate the stepwise reduction of ozone that
   followed the Mt. Pinatubo eruption with resultant stratospheric
   cooling. PCM has shown that it is capable of simulating verticale
   heating gradients in the troposphere due to interdecadal variations
   such as ENSO, and so we would expect our new simulation to show the
   extent to which the colder lower stratopshere will affect gradients in
   the trososphere. If Bengtsson's results are an indication, we expect an
   even closer fit to the satellite observations.

  Conclusions

     * Satellite and Surface Temperatures agree until 1992 (just after
       Pinatubo eruption) with middle tropospheric temperatures being
       slightly higher.
     * Warming trends before and after 1992 are essentially the same
       between surface and satellite.
     * Tropospheric temperature anomalies show systematic differences as a
       function of altitude and are influenced by ENSO events excepting
       during 1992-97 period.
     * Eruption of Mt. Pinatubo caused stepwise reduction in stratospheric
       ozone with resultant abrupt cooling in the stratosphere that only
       slowly recovered.
     * Satellite/surface temperature offset from 1992 to 1997 may reflect
       influence of volcanically-induced stratospheric cooling as
       evidenced by both observations and coupled climate models.

  Acknowledgments

    Discussions and review:

   Ben Santer LLNL
       Michael MacCracken National Assessment Coordination Office
       Bob Malone LANL
       Lennart Bengtsson Max-Planck-Institut fr Meteorologie
       Jim Hansen NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies
       Warren Washington National Center for Atmospheric Research

   Los Alamos National Laboratory data assistance:

   W. Scott Smith C.Y. Kao Bob Malone

   Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory:

   Data Assistance:

   Ben Santer
       Jay Hnilo
       NCAR PCM model and Ozone Data:
       Warren Washington
       Tom Bettge
       Gary Strand
       Bill Randel
       Fei Wu
       ENSO Multivariate Index:
       Klaus Wolter
       Climate Diagnostics Center
       University of Colorado/NOAA

   References

   Bengtsson, L., E. Roeckner, and M. Stendel, Why is the global warming
   proceeding much slower than expected?, Jour. Geophys. Res. 104, D4,
   3865-3876, 1999

   Hansen, J. M. Sato, R. Ruedy, A. Lacis, and 39 others, Forcings and
   chaos in interannual to decadal climate change, Jour. Geophys. Res.,
   102, D22, 25,679-25,720, 1997

   Keller, C. EOS Santer, B.D., T.M.L. Wigley, D.J. Gaffen, and 10 others,
   Interpreting Differential Temperature Trends at the Surface and in the
   Lower Tropsophere, Submitted to Science, 1999
