http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Newsroom/MediaResources/DataProducts/

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
   Turn glossary mode on     News

     Nasa News Stories Archive

   October 17, 2001

   NASA Unveils Spectacular Suite of New Global Data Products from MODIS
   Release No. 01-96

   A new collection of Earth science data is now publicly available to
   advance global studies of how our planet's lands, oceans, atmosphere
   and life all interact to define our world's water cycle, carbon cycle,
   and climate system. These data are courtesy of the Moderate-resolution
   Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), flying aboard NASA's Terra
   satellite. Whereas good MODIS data have been available since November
   2000, the newly released data set, called Collection 3, marks a
   significant step forward in data quality and consistency.

   "MODIS achieved a steady-state level of operations in November and
   since that time we have continued to make every attempt to improve the
   algorithms," said Team Leader Vince Salomonson, of NASA's Goddard Space
   Flight Center. "In June, we decided to provide the Earth science
   community with a set of consistently processed data products based upon
   our best efforts at that time."

   Like a highly advanced digital camera in space, MODIS has been
   measuring visible and infrared wavelengths from all over our world at
   multiple scales of time and space since February 2000. MODIS extends
   the measurement heritage begun by CZCS and AVHRR, and now provides
   exciting improvements in spectral detail, spatial resolution and
   accuracy over previous sensors.

   Collection 3 currently includes three months of data products - March,
   April and May of 2001 - and is now being expanded to encompass a
   one-year span from November 2000 to November 2001. These advanced,
   scientifically useful products are an intermediate step between the
   earliest beta-quality products and formally validated global data sets.
   Yet even in this intermediate stage, the team finds its MODIS data are
   of superior quality and provide an excellent new data set for global
   change studies.

   This interdisciplinary collection of Earth science data includes
   information on more than 40 meteorological, biological, and
   hydrological characteristics of the Earth, including some of the first
   ever routine, global observations of key Earth science characteristics,
   such as aerosol concentration over land and enhanced estimates of the
   effective leaf area of Earth's vegetation. Measurements of ocean
   temperatures and chlorophyll concentrations reveal more detail and
   variability than previously seen, while MODIS' chlorophyll fluorescence
   product adds a whole new dimension to studies of the marine biosphere.

   MODIS' data products are available at spatial resolutions ranging from
   250 m per pixel, to 1 km, to 1 degree; and range over time from daily,
   to weekly and monthly global composites. Production of MODIS' data
   products is divided among the team's three discipline groups:
   Atmosphere, Land and Ocean. Atmosphere Group Leader Michael King is
   excited by what he sees in the MODIS data.

   "We now have the ability to track and characterize aerosol optical
   properties over land and ocean, globally," he said. "And we have an
   unprecedented ability to separate small particles that result from
   human activities and biomass burning from coarse particles that result
   naturally, such as sea salts and desert dust."

   According to King, MODIS allows scientists to measure the differences
   in cloud optical properties for both water and ice clouds. The sensor
   can characterize the optical thickness of clouds and quantify the size
   of the particles within them. Moreover, MODIS is the first space-based
   sensor with a 1.37-µm channel, which is particularly sensitive to high,
   thin cirrus clouds.

   Complementing its measurements of the atmosphere, MODIS carries a suite
   of channels that are particularly well suited for studies of the
   Earth's land and ocean surfaces. The idea is to observe and measure the
   interactions of the atmosphere with lands, oceans and life on our
   world. Another copy of MODIS will fly aboard Aqua, in spring 2002, with
   an afternoon equatorial crossing to capture the daily variability of
   the Earth system.

   According to Land Group Leader Chris Justice, MODIS is the first
   space-based sensor that enables scientists to remove comprehensively
   the effects of the atmosphere for relatively unobstructed measurements
   of the surface. Thus, MODIS' measurements of surface reflectance and
   radiance are used to generate higher-order data products, such as
   spectral albedo, enhanced vegetation indices, leaf area index and the
   fraction of photosynthetically active radiation absorbed by plants,
   land use and land cover change, fires and burn scars, snow and ice
   cover, and land surface temperature.

   MODIS sets a new precedent in terms of radiometric data quality,
   integration of many different algorithms for producing a suite of data
   products, data validation and quality assurance, and improved
   resolution. "MODIS is capable of showing land cover dynamics - on a
   global scale, every day, at up to 250 m resolution - that were not
   possible before," Justice noted. "It is becoming apparent that MODIS
   250-m data can help advance land research that requires higher
   resolution and frequent measurements."

   Among the new products generated from MODIS, the Enhanced Vegetation
   Index (EVI) product and the Spectral Albedo Product are noteworthy and
   unique to MODIS. The EVI offers an alternative to the Normalized
   Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) measurements and appears to respond
   better to changes in vegetation as a function of changing climate,
   changing seasons, land use and differing plant structures.

   EVI
   NDVI
   This pair of Vegetation Indices highlights some of the refinements of
   the MODIS Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI, top) over the traditional
   Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI, bottom) that has been
   used with previous satellite instruments. NDVI tends to "saturate" over
   dense vegetation such as the rainforests of South America, failing to
   distinguish variability. The MODIS EVI provides a more detailed look at
   variability within such highly vegetated regions. Production of MODIS
   NDVI provides continuity with data sets from heritage instruments,
   while EVI provides added detail about global vegetation variability.
   Data for the images were collected between September 30 and October 15,
   2000. Values range from 0, indicating no green vegetation, to nearly 1,
   indicating the densest green vegetation. (Images courtesy MODIS Land
   Group/Vegetation Indices, Alfredo Huete, Principal Investigator, and
   Kamel Didan, University of Arizona.)

   According to Ocean Group Leader Wayne Esaias, MODIS' global 1-km
   resolution sea surface temperature and ocean color (chlorophyll)
   products are an order of magnitude better than the same measurements
   made by precursor sensors.

   "The details and patterns in MODIS' bio-optical and sea surface
   temperature distributions is astounding," Esaias stated. "For the first
   time, we can see correlations between the physics and biology of the
   ocean at spatial scales that just weren't available to us before. MODIS
   also offers improved approaches for chlorophyll measurements, color
   dissolved organic matter, coccolithophore calcite, and ocean
   productivity."

   Additionally, MODIS measures ocean parameters together with important
   atmospheric variables, like aerosols and clouds, to give scientists a
   much more complete understanding of the ocean-atmosphere climate
   interactions.

   NASA's Terra satellite is the flagship of the Earth Observing System
   series of satellites, part of NASA's Earth Science Enterprise, a
   long-term research program dedicated to understanding how human-induced
   and natural changes affect our global environment.

   ###

   Contact:

   Lynn Chandler
   Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Md.
   (Phone: 301-286-2806)


   Cloud Optical Thickness

   large Cloud Optical Thickness image (2.3 MB TIFF)

   This false-color image shows a one-month composite of cloud optical
   thickness measured by MODIS and averaged globally for April 2001.
   Optical thickness is a measure of how much solar radiation is not
   allowed to travel through a column of atmosphere. Areas colored red and
   yellow indicate very cloudy skies, on average, while areas colored
   green and light blue show moderately cloudy skies. Dark blue regions
   show where there is little or no cloud cover. This data product is an
   important new tool for helping scientists understand the roles clouds
   play in our global climate system. (Image courtesy MODIS Atmosphere
   Group, NASA GSFC.)


   Enhanced Vegetation Index

   large EVI image (3.4 MB TIFF)

   By carefully measuring the wavelengths and intensity of visible and
   near-infrared light reflected by the land surface back up into space,
   the MODIS Team can quantify the concentrations of green leaf
   vegetation. The above MODIS Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) map shows
   the density of plant growth over the entire globe. Very low values of
   EVI (white and brown areas) correspond to barren areas of rock, sand,
   or snow. Moderate values (light greens) represent shrub and grassland,
   while high values indicate temperate and tropical rainforests (dark
   greens). The MODIS EVI gives scientists a new tool for monitoring major
   fluctuations in vegetation and understanding how they affect, and are
   affected by, regional climate trends. (Image courtesy MODIS Land
   Group/Vegetation Indices, Alfredo Huete, Principal Investigator, and
   Kamel Didan, University of Arizona.)


   Sea Surface Temperature

   large SST image (5.1 MB TIFF)

   Every day MODIS measures global sea surface temperature with high
   accuracy. This image shows a one-month composite for May 2001. Red and
   yellow indicates warmer temperatures, green is an intermediate value,
   while blues and then purples are progressively colder values. The new
   MODIS sea surface temperature product will be particularly useful in
   studies of temperature anomalies, such as El Niño, as well as research
   into how air-sea interactions drive changes in weather and climate
   patterns. (Image courtesy MODIS Ocean Group, NASA GSFC, and University
   of Miami)

   Back to: News


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: webmaster@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
