http://cal-parks.ca.gov/news/about/index.htm


      Welcome to California California Home To see today's date, please
                                               enable JavaScript....


   Welcome to California, picture montage consisting of California grapes,
   cable car, PDA, San Diego skyline, Hollywood sign, and Monterey Cypress
   Tree




                           State Parks Home
                           Find A Park
                           Reservations & Fees
                           Educational
                           About Us
                           Jobs
                           News and Announcements



                                Related Links




                            Director Areias
                            Travel Region Maps
                            FAQs
                            Volunteers In Parks
                            Cooperating Assoc.
                            California's
                            National Parks
                            State Parks History
                            Name-Style-Usage
                            Attendance Statistics
                            Park Units-Properties
                            Summary Park Rules
                            and California Codes
                            Organization Chart
                            Sep.2000 - PDF
                            Sudden Oak Death
                            Dogs in State Parks


                             State Parks Banner





   About Us
   [goldbar.gif] To provide for the health, inspiration and education of
   the people of California by helping to preserve the state's
   extraordinary biological diversity, protecting its most valued natural
   and cultural resources, and creating opportunities for high-quality
   outdoor recreation.
   California Department of Parks and Recreation manages more than 260
   park units, which contain the finest and most diverse collection of
   natural, cultural, and recreational resources to be found within
   California. These treasures are as diverse as California: From the last
   stands of primeval redwood forests to vast expanses of fragile desert;
   from the lofty Sierra Nevada to the broad sandy beaches of our southern
   coast; and from the opulence of Hearst Castle to the vestiges of
   colonial Russia.
   California State Parks contains the largest and most diverse natural
   and cultural heritage holdings of any state agency in the nation. State
   park units include underwater preserves, reserves, and parks; redwood,
   rhododendron, and wildlife reserves; state beaches, recreation areas,
   wilderness areas, and reservoirs; state historic parks, historic homes,
   Spanish era adobe buildings, including museums, visitor centers,
   cultural reserves, and preserves; as well as lighthouses, ghost towns,
   waterslides, conference centers, and off-highway vehicle parks. These
   parks protect and preserve an unparalleled collection of culturally and
   environmentally sensitive structures and habitats, threatened plant and
   animal species, ancient Native American sites, historic structures and
   artifacts . . . the best of Californias natural and cultural history.
   Responsible for almost one-third of Californias scenic coastline,
   California State Parks manages the states finest coastal wetlands,
   estuaries, beaches, and dune systems. Our workplace consists of nearly
   1.3 million acres, with over 280 miles of coastline; 625 miles of lake
   and river frontage; nearly 18,000 campsites; and 3,000 miles of hiking,
   biking, and equestrian trails.
   Seventh Generation - Strategic Plan 2001
   Departmental history, mission, goals, vision, and core program areas.
   (32-pages 1,416kb - Acrobat PDF)
   [goldbar.gif]



                              __________ search
                        (*)  My CA   ( )   This Site



                        Communications Office
                        P.O. Box 942896
                        Sacramento, CA 94296
                        Public Information Inquiries
                        TEL 916-653-6995
                        Toll Free 1-800-777-0369
                        FAX 916-657-3903
                        info@parks.ca.gov


                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
