http://www.nhtsa.dot.gov/people/injury/airbags/airbag2/FAQ's/FrFAQ.htm

   Questions frequently asked about children and air bag-related injuries

Danger To Children

   Question: Why are air bags dangerous to children age 12 and under?

   Answer:Air bags inflate at speeds up to 200 mph -- faster than the
   blink of an eye -- to protect adults in a front-end collision. That
   blast of energy can severely hurt or kill passengers and drivers who
   are too close to the air bag. An infant's head in a rear-facing safety
   seat is directly in front of the air bag as it breaks through the
   dashboard and instantly inflates. Even some forward facing child safety
   seats could possibly place the child within range of the air bag before
   it is fully inflated. Also, if a child is unbelted, or too small for
   the lap and shoulder belt to fit properly, or wriggling around or
   leaning forward, there is a danger that the child will be too close to
   the dashboard during that instant that the air bag begins to inflate.

Importance Of Safety Belts

   Question: How can an air bag work so well for adults, but hurt children
   in the front passenger seat?

   Answer: An average size adult who is correctly belted is not likely to
   come in contact with the air bag until it is fully inflated. A fully
   inflated air bag spreads the forces of the crash across a wide area of
   the body. Even an unbelted adult will probably come in contact with the
   air bag at the chest area after the bag has at least partially
   inflated. For greatest protection, both the driver and front passengers
   should be buckled up and the seats moved back as far as practical to
   allow ample space for the air bag to expand.

   Unbelted or improperly belted children can easily slide off the seat
   during pre-crash braking, throwing them against the dashboard where the
   air bag can strike them on the head or neck with tremendous force
   before it is fully inflated.

   The air bag only inflates in front end crashes and collapses
   immediately. For protection in all types of collisions -- multiple,
   rollover, rear end, side and front end -- it is very important to
   always use both lap and shoulder belts.

The Back Seat Is The Safest Seat

   Question: Why are children safer in the back seat?

   Answer: The rear seat is the safest seat for any passenger. Head-on
   crashes cause the greatest number of serious injuries. A person sitting
   in the back seat is farthest away from the impact and less likely to be
   injured. People sitting in the rear have the soft back of the front
   seat in front of them, instead of hard surfaces like the windshield,
   mirror or dashboard.

   If it is absolutely necessary for a child age 12 or under to ride in
   the front seat of a car with a passenger side air bag, secure the child
   in a restraint system that is correct for the size of the child -- a
   front-facing child safety seat, a booster seat, or a lap/shoulder belt
   -- AND move the front seat as far back away from the dashboard as
   possible.

   If the vehicle has no back seat, such as a pickup truck, an infant will
   be safe in a rear-facing child seat only if the vehicle does not have a
   passenger side air bag or if it has a cutoff switch for the passenger
   side air bag.

   In summary, people riding in the front seat who are most likely to be
   injured or killed by an inflating air bag are:
     * infants riding in rear-facing car seats;
     * children age 12 and under who are not properly secured in a
       restraint system that is appropriate for their size -- a forward
       facing safety seat, booster seat, or correct fitting lap and
       shoulder belt;
     * children or adults who are not buckled up;
     * children or adults who place the shoulder belt either behind their
       back or under their arm; and
     * persons sitting too close to the steering wheel or dashboard so
       that they come into contact with the air bag before it is fully
       inflated.

Being Smothered By an Air Bag is a Myth

   Question: Is it true that a passenger can be smothered by an air bag?

   Answer: No! The injuries that occur are caused by the inflating bag
   hitting the head and neck of an out-of-position passenger or the
   inflating bag hitting the back of an infant seat behind a baby's head.
   The air bag loses its air right after it inflates, so the stiff fabric
   does not remain over the passenger's face.

Turning an Infant Seat Around

   Question: When parents learn that an air bag can harm a baby in a
   rear-facing infant seat, many of them want to place the baby facing
   forward. Is this okay?

   Answer: No! Infants must always ride facing the rear in the back seat.

   Both the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and the
   American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) warn that babies should ride
   facing the back until they are at least one year old and weigh at least
   20 pounds. A child under age one does not have strong neck muscles; the
   head would snap forward in a crash if the baby were facing forward.
   This could cause serious neck and spinal cord injury.

   When the child is facing the back, the force of the crash is spread
   across the whole body. The child seat harness must be snug, and the
   seat should be at a 45-degree angle to support the baby's head and
   maintain an open airway. Some safety seats have an indicator on the
   side to show the correct angle. A child seat that installs in a
   position that is too upright can be angled properly by using a firmly
   rolled sheet or towel under the foot of the seat.

Need to Be Able to See Baby While Driving

   Question: Many parents don't want to put their infants in the back seat
   because they cannot see them. Shouldn't a parent keep an eye on the
   baby to make sure it is not choking or
   experiencing some other health problem?

   Answer: The risk of a serious injury in a crash is much greater than
   the risk of a healthy baby having a life-threatening problem during a
   car ride. A healthy baby correctly buckled in a rear-facing child seat
   should be as safe as a child placed in a crib for a nap or an overnight
   sleep. Parents do not stay in the room to watch a sleeping baby.

   Drivers traveling with children should always allow plenty of time to
   pull off the road if they are concerned about the baby or need to tend
   to the child's needs.

Using Only the Lap Portion of a Lap/Shoulder Belt System

   Question: If a child is too small to wear a shoulder belt correctly,
   will the lap belt protect the child from an air bag?

   Answer: No. If a child uses only the lap portion of a safety belt, his
   or her upper body will be thrown forward when the driver brakes or
   during the crash itself. The inflating bag will strike the child's head
   and neck very hard.

   Whether in the front seat or rear seat, children can suffer serious or
   fatal injuries if they wear a shoulder belt wrong, such as under the
   arm or behind the back. A child who is too short for the shoulder belt
   (for example, the belt cuts across the neck or face) should always use
   a convertible or toddler safety seat (if the child is under 40 pounds
   and 40 inches) or a belt-positioning booster seat (if the child is over
   40 pounds and 40 inches). Remember that a belt-positioning booster seat
   must be used with both the lap and shoulder belts, preferably in the
   rear seat, which is always safer than the front seat.

Identifying Vehicles with Air Bags

   Question: How can a driver or passenger tell whether a vehicle has an
   air bag?

   Answer: Vehicles with air bags have one or more of the following
   markings:
     * the words "Air Bag" or the letters "SRS" (Supplemental Restraint
       System) or "SIR" (Supplemental Inflatable Restraint) on the
       steering wheel and dashboard panel.
     * a warning label on the sun visors or on the sides of the open door
       frame.
     * a warning in the vehicle owner's manual.

   Consult the owner's manual to find information about carrying children
   safely in a vehicle equipped with an air bag.
