http://www.cancer.gov/dictionary/

   text only skip navigation
   National Cancer Institute Cancer.gov
                                        dictionary
                                        sitemap
                                        search

   home about NCI cancer information clinical trials statistics research
                  programs research funding


      skip menu Cancer.gov Dictionary



   # A B C D E F G H I  J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z



   #



   10-propargyl-10-deazaaminopterin

     A substance that is being studied as an anticancer drug. It belongs
     to the family of drugs called folate analogues.

   12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate

     TPA. A drug that is being studied as a treatment for hematologic
     cancer.

   13-cis retinoic acid

     A drug that belongs to the family of drugs called retinoids. It is
     used in the treatment of acne and psoriasis and is being studied in
     cancer prevention. Also called isotretinoin.

   17-N-allylamino-17-demethoxy geldanamycin

     A substance that is being studied as an anticancer drug. It belongs
     to the family of drugs called antitumor antibiotics.

   1H-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging

     A noninvasive imaging method of detecting and measuring activity at
     the cellular level. It provides chemical information and is used in
     conjunction with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which gives
     spatial information. Also called proton magnetic resonance
     spectroscopic imaging.

   2IT-BAD monoclonal antibody 170

     A type of monoclonal antibody used in cancer detection or therapy.
     Monoclonal antibodies are laboratory-produced substances that can
     locate and bind to cancer cells.

   3-aminopyridine-2-carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone

     3-AP. A substance that is being studied as an anticancer drug. It
     belongs to the family of drugs called ribonucleotide reductase
     inhibitors.

   3-AP

     3-aminopyridine-2-carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone. A substance that
     is being studied as an anticancer drug. It belongs to the family of
     drugs called ribonucleotide reductase inhibitors.

   3-D

     3-dimensional. A graphic display of depth, width, and height.

   3-dimensional

     3-D. A graphic display of depth, width, and height.

   3-dimensional radiation therapy

     A procedure that uses computers to create a 3-dimensional picture of
     the tumor. This allows doctors to give the highest possible dose of
     radiation to the tumor, while sparing the normal tissue as much as
     possible.

   4'-iodo-4'-deoxydoxorubicin

     An anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called
     antineoplastic antibiotics.

   4-demethoxydaunorubicin

     An anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called
     antitumor antibiotics. Also called idarubicin.

   5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid

     5HIAA. A breakdown product of serotonin that is excreted in the
     urine. Serotonin is a hormone found at high levels in many body
     tissues. Serotonin and 5HIAA are produced in excess amounts by
     carcinoid tumors, and levels of these substances may be measured in
     the urine to test for carcinoid tumors.

   506U78

     An anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called
     antimetabolites.

   6-hydroxymethylacylfulvene

     An anticancer drug that belongs to the family of drugs called
     alkylating agents. Also called irofulven.

   9-cis retinoic acid

     A drug being studied for cancer prevention. It belongs to the family
     of drugs called retinoids.

   90Y-DOTA-biotin

     A radioactive substance (yttrium-90) joined by a large chemical link
     (DOTA) to biotin, a vitamin.



   return to top




   ______________

   Advanced submit search

   Andrew von Eschenbach Named Director of the NCI
   NCI Launches Redesigned, Cancer Resource Web Site
   Past Highlights
   NewsCenter

   Help

   Cancer.gov Help
   FAQs
   Index of NCI Sites


   Resources

   Cancer Information Service
   1-800-4-CANCER
   NCI's Publications Locator
   NCI Calendar of Scientific Meetings
   Links to Other Web Sites

   LiveHelp
                            Español   Text Only


   HOME SEARCH SITE MAP CONTACT HELP ACCESSIBILITY PRIVACY POLICY National
   Institutes of Health Department of Health and Human Services
   FirstGov.gov
