http://usmint.gov/pressroom/



      The United States Mint What's New FAQs Search Mint Tours
      www.usmint.gov                         Serving America Since 1792

                               About The Mint
                               Product Catalog
                                Mint Programs
                               About The Mint
                                  Pressroom
                               Press Releases
                                 Legislation
                           High Resolution Images
                                Join Our Team
                               Privacy Policy
                               Take Our Survey
                            h.i.p. pocket change

                            Accessibility Cookies


                                  Pressroom


      Visit the pressroom regularly for the latest on Mint products and
      events.  Our Press Releases are fully searchable.



   Breaking News We've updated and expanded our Legislation Page.  Check
   out the original legislation that created the forthcoming American
   Buffalo Coin, the Golden Dollar, the General Colin L. Powell Medal, and
   more.  The Public Laws that make U.S. Mint coins possible are treasure
   troves of information for journalists, collectors and scholars.
   They're the last word on a coin's issue dates, metallic content, and
   design.  They also survey the American events and achievements each
   coin commemorates.

   More Breaking News from the Mint Pressroom.

        * Researching a particular coin?  Go to the Legislation page to link
          to the full text of the Congressional legislation that created
          recent coins and medals.
        * Image Library The Pressroom Image Library archives high-resolution
          images perfect for use in news publications.  Download them as
          "TIF" files in either Macintosh or PC formats.

      For More Information Contact:
      Michael White,
      Office of Public Affairs
      (202) 354-7222


  Terms of Use   ||   FOIA   ||   Site Map   ||   Contact Us
  Portions © 1998-2001.  The U.S. Mint.  All Rights Reserved.

                                                                                                                          Aug 6, 2001
                                                                                                                              [stwb3]

                     web server   stweb3
                    server time   Jan 30, 2002 @ 12:36:21
                   adjusted now   Jan 30, 2002 @ 12:36:21
