http://unix2.nysed.gov/gate/remotedb.htm

   New York State Library

                  Database Gateway--Resources Available Online

   One of the many services the New York State Library provides to its
   registered borrowers is access to online databases. The New York State
   Library's subscription pays for access to these databases, but this
   service is free to our registered borrowers.

   A valid New York State Library borrower's card is required to access
   these resources. After choosing one of the databases below you will be
   prompted to enter your library borrower's card number and PIN. Further
   distribution of these numbers is prohibited. See our help page if you
   run into problems while accessing databases.

E-Books

   Electronic Book Collection Description
   netLibrary Our collection of netLibrary electronic books (e-books)
   contains 3,772 copyrighted books. The netLibrary site also features
   thousands of public domain titles.

Databases

                                    New!
                     EBSCO Online (added December 2001)
   Project Muse, Readers Guide (Full Text 1983-present and Retrospective)
         and Index to Legal Periodicals & Books (added January 2002)

   Additional databases: Onsite at the State Library | Freely available on
   the Web

   Database Part of/
   Search Help Description
   Academic Search Premier EBSCOhost
   Search tips Full text for nearly 360 scholarly publications; abstracts
   & indexing for over 4,250 scholarly journals with many dating back to
   1984; scholarly collection providing full text journal coverage for
   nearly all academic areas of study, including social sciences,
   humanities, education, computer sciences, engineering, lanaguage and
   linguistics, medical sciences, and ethnic studies.
   Alt-Health Watch EBSCOhost
   Search tips 1990+. A full-text database offering 50,000 articles on
   complementary, holistic and integrated approaches to health care, and
   wellness. Also includes pamphlets, booklets, special reports, original
   research and book excerpts.
   Applied Science and Technology Abstracts EBSCOhost
   Search tips Indexing 3/1983+. Abstracts 10/1993+. Covers topics such as
   acoustics, aeronautics, artificial intelligence, chemistry, computers,
   engineering, geology, plastics, textiles, and more.
   Biographies Plus Illustrated WilsonWeb
   Search tips 72,000+ biographies and obituaries and 20,000+ photographs.
   Many of the biographies are enhanced with full text, abstracts, and
   citations from H. W. Wilson databases. It includes the full text of the
   articles from Current Biography and the World Author Series.
   Biography and Genealogy Master Index Search tips

   Citations for over 12 million entries for current and historical
   persons. Refer to the source cited for the biographical entry.

   Note: Search various forms of a name to retrieve all possible records.
   Biological Sciences csa
   Abstracts and indexes to scientific and technical research literature
   in the biological sciences.
   Books in Print OCLC
   Search tips In print, out-of-print and forthcoming books.
   Business Source Premier EBSCOhost
   Search tips Full text for 2,260 scholarly business journals covering
   management, economics, finance, acccounting and international business;
   abstracts and indexing for 2,870 business journals and 2,300 cumulative
   full-text journals and more than 40 regional publications.
   CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied Health Literature)
   EBSCOhost
   Search tips CINAHL w/Headings: 1982+. Indexes over 1,200 journals and
   other sources. Includes nursing, 17 allied health disciplines, and
   health sciences librarianship.
   CIS CIS (Congressional Information Service) provides access to
   Government Periodicals Universe, History Universe, State Capital
   Universe and Statistical Universe.
   Civil War: A Newspaper Perspective Accessible Archives, Inc
   Search tips This database contains the full text of major articles from
   the New York Herald, Charleston Mercury and the Richmond Enquirer,
   published between November 1, 1860 and April 15, 1865. It includes
   descriptive news articles, eye-witness accounts and official reports of
   battles and events, editorials, advertisements and biographies.
   Clinical Reference Systems EBSCOhost
   Search tips Contains over 7,000 reports on adult health, behavioral
   health, cardiology, drug and medication information, pediatric health,
   senior health, women's health and sports medicine. Spanish language
   essays included.
   CSA Cambridge Scientific Abstracts (CSA) publishes abstracts and
   indexes to scientific and technical research literature. The Library
   subscribes to the GeoRef and Biological Sciences databases.
   Dialog@Carl Search tips Approximately 270 databases cover subjects such
   as business and industry, computing and information science, education,
   environment and energy, general and consumer information, grants,
   health and medicine, humanities and art, law and government, news,
   patents, copyrights and tradenames, reference, sciences, social
   sciences, technology and engineering, and many newspapers. Some
   databases available are Albany Times Union, ERIC, Federal Register,
   GPO, MEDLINE, and National Criminal Justice Reference Service. For a
   complete list, see http://dialog.carl.org/basiclist.html; for a list of
   newspapers, see http://dialog.carl.org/newsdb.html.
   e-psyche EBSCOhost
   Search tips Covers psychology and related behavioral disciplines.
   Includes dissertations, technical reports, newsletters, Web sites and
   conference proceedings.
   EBSCO Online This multidisciplinary database links to full text and
   tables of contents of journals the State Library receives from EBSCO in
   print. Topics covered include psychology, education, medicine,
   economics, geology, criminal justice, information science, physics,
   history, and more.
   EBSCO Online Citations EBSCOhost
   Search tips Multi-subject database of journal citations and table of
   contents, with links to some full text articles.
   EBSCOhost Search tips Databases include MasterFILE Premier, Academic
   Search Premier, Alt-HealthWatch, Applied Science and Technology
   Abstracts, Business Source Premier, CINAHL, Clinical Reference Systems,
   MEDLINE, e-pysche, EBSCO Online Citations, ERIC, Ethnic NewsWatch
   Complete, Health Source (Consumer Edition and Nursing/Academic
   Edition), Newspaper Source, NTIS, The Serials Directory, and USP DI
   Volume II.

   Spanish and French versions of EBSCOhost are available for a limited
   number of databases. However, the translation is done by a computer
   program and may not be 100% accurate.

   NOTE: To access full text ERIC documents go directly to the EDRS
   website (click on EDRS below).
   EDRS (ERIC Document Reproduction Service) EDRS contains documents on
   education-related topics submitted to ERIC clearinghouses. Full text is
   available 1993 to present. NOTE: This database is searchable. For more
   search options search ERIC in EBSCOhost and then go to EDRS to access
   the full text. If the document is listed as available on EDRS for a
   fee, you may also be able to acquire this document through your
   library.
   Education Full Text WilsonWeb
   Search tips 6/83-Present, Abstracts since 1/94 Fulltext since 1/96.
   Indexes and abstracts articles of at least one column in length from
   English-language periodicals and yearbooks published in the United
   States and elsewhere. English-language books relating to education
   published in 1995 or later are also indexed.
   ERIC EBSCOhost
   Search tips ERIC (Education Resource Information Center): 1966+. U.S.
   Department of Education. Indexing/abstracts of education (and related)
   journals, and research/technical reports. Selected full text of
   thousands of ERIC digests.
   Ethnic NewsWatch Complete EBSCOhost
   Search tips 1980+ (many are 1990+). Has 630,000 articles from over 200
   newspapers, magazines and journals of the ethnic, minority and native
   press. U.S. and international publications are included. It has over
   125,000 articles in Spanish, and can be searched in both English and
   Spanish.
   GeoRef csa
   Geology of North America (1785 on) and for the rest of the world (1933
   on).
   Government Periodicals Universe Lexis-Nexis
   Search tips Indexes over 170 government periodicals covering research
   in fields such as astronomy, anthropology, business, education, health
   and medicine, social science and science topics.
   Health Reference Center-Academic InfoTrac - Gale Group
   Search tips 1996 + Mostly full text. Includes fitness, pregnancy,
   medicine, nutrition, public health, occupational health and safety,
   alcohol/drug abuse, HMOs, prescription drugs and more.
   Health Source Plus EBSCOhost
   Search tips 1984+ for indexing/abstracts, 1990+ full text. Includes
   full text for over 270 journals, 1,100 pamphlets and 20 books. Covers
   health, nutrition, medical self-care, drugs and alcohol, and many other
   topics.
   History Universe Lexis-Nexis
   Search tips Primary and secondary source materials such as court cases,
   statutes, autobiographies, articles, manuscripts and photographs in
   Presidential Studies, African-American Studies and Women's Studies.
   Index to Legal Periodicals & Books: 1981 - present WilsonWeb
   Search tips Covers legal journals, yearbooks, institutes, bar
   association publications, law reviews, and government publications
   originating in the United States, Canada, Great Britain, Ireland,
   Australia and New Zealand. Indexes 845 law reviews, plus some 1400
   monographs per year; also cites book reviews.
   InfoTrac Search tips Information Access Company (Gale) provides access
   to LegalTrac and Health ReferenceCenter-Academic. For more information
   see individual database descriptions on this list.
   JSTOR Search tips Full text from extensive back files of 29 scholarly
   journals related to botany and ecology. Starting dates vary, but some
   go back to the 19th century. Most issues appear 3-5 years after
   publication.
   LegalTrac InfoTrac - Gale Group
   Search tips 1980+ Some full text. Index to major legal publications,
   including law reviews, legal newspapers, and bar association journals.
   Covers case studies, government regulations, statutes, taxation, and
   international law.
   MasterFILE Premier EBSCOhost
   Search tips 1984 for indexing/abstracts, 1990+ full text. Coverage
   varies by title. Includes over 1,800 full text journals. Covers nearly
   all subjects, including business, health, consumer information,
   education and science.
   MEDLINE EBSCOhost
   Search tips MEDLINE 1966+. The U.S. National Library of Medicine's
   database of citations and abstracts to journal articles. Covers
   medicine, nursing, dentistry, veterinary medicine, the health care
   system and much more.
   MLA Bibliography OCLC
   Search tips 1963+ Citations from over 6,000 journals covering
   literature, languages, linguistics and folklore.
   NetFirst OCLC
   Search tips Indexes, abstracts and links to Internet resources.
   Newspaper Source EBSCOhost
   Search tips Selected full text for over 150 U.S. and international
   newspapers. Full text of some major U.S. newspapers, including the
   Christian Science Monitor, the New York Daily News, the Chicago
   Tribune, the Miami Herald, and the San Jose Mercury News.
   NTIS EBSCOhost
   Search tips 1964+. Abstracts. Compiled by the U.S. National Technical
   Information Service, this database contains over 700,000 summaries of
   government-sponsored research in many topics including agriculture,
   business, communication, energy, engineering, environment, medicine,
   science, and much more.
   OCLC FirstSearch Search tips Online service that includes access to the
   following databases: WorldCat, NetFirst, Books in Print, MLA
   International Bibliography, PAIS, WilsonSelect Plus, WorldAlmanac, and
   WorldBook. For more information see the individual descriptions on this
   list.
   Oxford English Dictionary Online Search tips The accepted authority on
   the evolution of the English language, the Oxford English Dictionary
   (OED) details the meaning, history, and pronunciation of over half a
   million words, both present and past, from across the English-speaking
   world. Citations include quotations, etymological analysis and variant
   spellings. The OED Online contains the complete text of the 20-volume
   Second Edition as well as the New Edition in progress.
   PAIS International (Public Affairs Information Service) OCLC
   Search tips Indexes articles, books, conference proceedings, government
   documents, book chapters, and statistical directories about public
   affairs.
   Poole's Plus Search tips Indexes to historical periodicals (1802 to
   1906), including the New York Times and the New York Daily Tribune.
   Project Muse Project Muse was estabished by John Hopkins University
   Press to provide digital access to journals. It provides online,
   worldwide access to the full text of over 100 scholarly jourrnals in
   the arts, humanities, mathematics and social sciences.
   ProQuest Search tips Provides access to ABI/INFORM Research.
   Readers Guide Full Text 1983-present WilsonWeb
   Search tips The database contains comprehensive indexing and
   abstracting of the most popular general-interest periodicals published
   in the United States and Canada, plus the full text of selected
   periodicals. Full-text coverage begins in January 1994 for most titles.
   Readers' Guide Retrospective WilsonWeb
   Search tips This database contains comprehensive indexing of the most
   popular general-interest periodicals published in the United States and
   reflects the history of 20th century America. Phase One coverage
   includes the years 1969 through 1982. (The complete database will cover
   the years 1890 through 1982.)
   Reference USA Search tips Directory information, SIC codes, credit
   ratings, and number of employees for U.S. businesses and organizations
   as well as telephone directory information for individuals.
   State Capital Universe Lexis-Nexis
   Search tips Contains bills, regulations, and statutes; information
   about state legislators, issues and policy in State Net Capitol Journal
   and other news sources; and links to Web sites with state information.
   Not all states are covered under each topic.
   Statistical Universe Lexis-Nexis
   Search tips Indexes and provides full text links to documents contained
   in American Statistics Index (ASI), Statistical Reference Index (SRI),
   Index to International Statistics (IIS). Sources covered include
   government agencies, associations, and international associations.
   USP DI Volume II, Advice for the patient EBSCOhost
   Search tips Patient-oriented drug information in lay language. The best
   way to search for a drug's generic or brand name is to search the USP
   Index (click on USP Index button on search screen).
   WilsonSelect Plus OCLC
   Search tips 1994+ Full text of selected records from Readers' Guide
   Abstracts, Social Sciences Abstracts, Humanities Abstracts, General
   Science Abstracts and Wilson Business Abstracts.
   WorldAlmanac OCLC
   Search tips Includes text of The World Almanac and Book of Facts, The
   World Almanac of the U.S.A., The World Almanac of U.S. Politics, The
   World Almanac for Kids and The World Almanac Knowledge Source.
   WorldBook OCLC
   Search tips 1998 World Book Encyclopedia, International edition. Full
   text, many British spellings.
   WorldCat OCLC
   Search tips The OCLC Online Union Catalog contains 40 million records
   describing items owned by libraries around the world. Each record
   contains library holdings and bibliographic information.
   Zoological Record Silver Platter
   Search tips 1993+. Citations to articles from journals on every aspect
   of zoology, including biochemistry, behavior, ecology evolution,
   genetics, etc. Available online via Silverplatter.

   Help page | Top

                       Home Catalog Search Contact Us

   Last modified on January 4, 2001/dvm
   URL: http://www.nysl.nysed.gov/gate/remotedb.htm
