http://w3.noaa.gov/ocean.html


   NOAA Banner
   Click here for NOAA home page.

   Click here for site map.

   Click here for contacts page.

   Click here to search NOAA sites.


   Ocean Banner

   Ocean Scene w Divers
   NOAA's National Ocean Service - grew out of the nation's oldest
   scientific agency, established as the Survey of the Coast in 1807 by
   President Thomas Jefferson. Today, NOS is responsible for the
   observation, measurement, assessment and management of the nation's
   vast coastal and ocean areas. NOS provides world-class products and
   services that protect millions of lives, billions of dollars in
   property and irreplaceable natural resources daily.

   NOAA's National Marine Sanctuaries - These are 13 marine sanctuaries
   operated by NOAA around the United States. Come see what's inside each
   sanctuary!

   NOAA's Ocean Explorer - NOAA's Office of Ocean Exploration is making it
   easy for underwater explorers to journey beneath the water's surface
   and not get wet.

   Marine Prediction Center - originates and issues marine warnings and
   forecasts, continually monitors and analyzes maritime data, and
   provides guidance of marine atmospheric variables for purposes of
   protection of life and property, safety at sea, and enhancement of
   economic opportunity.

   Environmental and Scientific Ship and Aircraft Missions - NOAA's Office
   of Marine and Aviation Operations operates a wide variety of
   specialized ships and aircraft to provide hydrographic survey data,
   oceanographic and atmospheric research information, and fisheries
   research to support NOAA's mission.

   Sustainable Seas Expeditions - uses the DeepWorker one-person
   submersible and other technologies to explore and conduct research in
   deep water habitats in NOAA's 12 national marine sanctuaries.

   NOAA's CoastWatch Great Lakes Program - NOAA's Great Lakes
   Environmental Research Lab obtains, produces, and delivers
   environmental data and products for near real-time monitoring of the
   Great Lakes to support environmental science, decision making, and
   supporting research. This is achieved by providing access to near
   real-time and retrospective satellite observations.

   Diving Resources - Take a dive and swim around to see what NOAA has to
   offer diving enthusiasts.

   National Estuarine Research Reserve System - a network of protected
   areas established to improve the health of the nation's estuaries and
   coastal habitats by developing and providing information that promotes
   informed resource management.

   National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science - conducts and supports
   monitoring, research, assessment and technical assistance for the range
   of NOAA's coastal stewardship responsibilities.

   NOAA Coastal Services Center - it's mission is to foster and sustain
   the environmental and economic well being of the nation's coast by
   linking people, information, and technology.

   Oil & Chemical Spills - Here are tools and information for emergency
   responders and planners, and others working to understand and mitigate
   the effects of oil and hazardous materials in our waters and along our
   coasts.

   Ocean Maps - One-stop shopping for images and data from a set of
   products available directly from the Web. These products are offered by
   theme (e.g., coastal aerial photography, low resolution nautical
   charts, coastal survey maps, etc.)

   NOAA's Environmental Modeling Center - develops, improves and monitors
   data assimilation systems and models of the atmosphere, ocean and
   coupled system, using advanced methods developed internally, as well as
   cooperatively, with scientists from NOAA laboratories, universities,
   other government agencies, and the international scientific community.

   NOAA's Ocean Modeling Branch - a division of NOAA's Environmental
   Modeling Center - responsible for the development of improved numerical
   weather, marine, and climate prediction modeling and analysis systems
   within NOAA's National Centers for Environmental Prediction and NOAA's
   National Weather Service. (Ocean Waves, Ocean Winds, Open Ocean Fog,
   Coastal Ocean Fog, etc.)

   Nautical Charts - NOAA's Coast Survey is the nation's official
   chartmaker. It is the oldest U.S. scientific organization dating back
   to Thomas Jefferson who established the office in 1807 to encourage
   commerce and support the economy in a safe and efficient manner.

   National Geodetic Survey - provides information needed for safe air
   transportation, including position, height, and orientation information
   for airport runways and taxiways. It conducts aerial photography
   surveys near airports in the United States and its possessions to
   position obstructions and aids to air travel.

   Volunteering for the Coast - is a Web site for people with a passion
   for lakes, rivers, and the ocean, who want to volunteer or coordinate
   volunteer efforts. By volunteering for the coast, we can all have a
   hand at making our shores a better place to live and visit.

   Come visit Aquarius - the world's only underwater laboratory
   operational in our world's oceans. Located adjacent to the coral reef
   in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, Aquarius is owned and
   funded by NOAA and is operated by the University of North Carolina at
   Wilmington.

   Argo - is a global array of 3,000 free-drifting profiling floats that
   will measure the temperature and salinity of the upper 2000 meters of
   the ocean. This will allow continuous monitoring of the climate state
   of the ocean, with all data being relayed and made publicly available
   within hours after collection.

   The Marine Geology & Geophysics Division of NOAA's National Geophysical
   Data Center and the collocated World Data Center for Marine Geology &
   Geophysics, in Boulder, Colo., compiles and maintains extensive
   bathymetric, marine sediment, and trackline geophysical databases in
   both coastal and open ocean areas.

   Marine Protected Areas may include national marine sanctuaries,
   fisheries management zones, national seashores, national parks,
   national monuments, critical habitats, national wildlife refuges,
   national estuarine research reserves, state conservation areas, state
   reserves, and many others.

   Featured Ocean Products


   Sea Surface Temp Sample
   Latest Sea Surface Temperature Images Seismic Sample Map
                                         Recent Seismicity in the
                                         East Pacific Ocean

   spacer

   line
   News
   line

     * NOAA Ship Ronald H. Brown Returns to Charleston after Year of
       Global Climate and Other Research

   line
   Hot Topics
   line

     * Beach Temperatures
     * Buoys
     * Coastal Ocean Fog
     * Coral Reefs
     * Marine Forecasts
     * Marine Protected Areas
     * Marine Weather Links
     * Ocean Waves - Real-Time
     * Ocean Winds - Real-Time
     * Open Ocean Fog
     * Ocean Report Turning to the Sea: America's Ocean Future
     * Real-time Undersea Volcano Monitoring
     * Sea Surface Temperatures via Satellite
     * Ships & Aircraft
     * State of the Coast
     * Whale Protection

   line
   Products
   line

     * Animation of Monthly- averaged Sea Surface Temperatures
     * Coastal Water Temperature Guide
     * Infohub: One Stop Shopping for Oceanographic Real Time Products
     * Make a Tide Prediction
     * Marine Weather Charts
     * NOAA Photo Library
     * PORTS - Avoid Groundings and Collisions
     * Tides Online: Water Level Observations

   line
   Organizations
   line

     * National Ocean Service
     * National Undersea Research Program


                                  Nurp Logo

     * Office of Marine & Aviation Operations
     * NOAA Corps
     * Marine Prediction Center
     * National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science
     * National Oceanographic Data Center
     * National Marine Sanctuaries
     * Great Lakes Environmental Research Lab
     * Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory
     * The Vents Program - Undersea Volcanoes
     * New Millennium Observatory - NeMO
     * Atlantic Oceanographic & Meteorological Laboratory
     * National Tsunami Hazard Mitigation Program
     * Sea Grant

   spacer

   spacer

   line

   Publication of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
   Last Updated: 1/16/02

   spacer
