http://goldmine.cde.ca.gov/cyfsbranch/chssco/

                        California Dept. of Education
          Work Plan   | Advisory Committee  |  BRIDGES  | CPR | Search

           CHSSCO


                 California Head Start State Collaboration Office

                 Michael Silver, Project Director
                 Michael Zito, Project Coordinator


   Hot topics

             CHSA Annual Conference & Leadership Day

             Ninth Annual Family Literacy Conference


   An Overview of Head Start

   Head Start is a national program that provides comprehensive
   developmental services for low-income children from birth to entry in
   elementary school. Over a span of more than thirty years, Head Start
   has provided educational, social, medical, dental, nutrition, mental
   health services, and parent involvement activities to almost 18 million
   children nationwide.

   Head Start is currently funded at over $6 billion and serves more than
   857,000 low-income children and families nationwide. The program is
   child-centered, family-focused, comprehensive, and community-based.
   Head Start services are designed to address developmental goals for
   children, employment and self-sufficiency goals for adults, and support
   for parents in their work and child-caring roles.

   Unlike most other federal programs for low-income families, state
   governments do not manage Head Start. Rather, Head Start is a direct
   federal-to-local program administered by over 1,800 locally based
   public or private organizations across the country. At the national
   level, Head Start is administered by the Head Start Bureau within the
   Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF), Administration
   for Children and Families (ACF), Department of Health and Human
   Services (DHHS).

   Why is Collaboration Important?

   The ACF recognized the important role of states in the development and
   implementation of policies and initiatives that affect low-income
   families and their children. Because of its federal-to-local funding,
   Head Start programs were often not included in policy and
   implementation discussions at the state level. This problem led to the
   development of Collaboration Grants.

   The purpose of the grants is to create a visible presence for Head
   Start at the state level, and to assist in the development of
   multi-agency and public-private partnerships among Head Start and other
   interested stakeholders.

   Why is collaboration between Head Start and state programs important?
   Consider the following:
     * California’s Head Start program is the largest in the nation. In
       2002, over 97,000 children will be served by Head Start with a
       program budget of over $755 million. California’s Head Start
       programs are administered through a system of 63 grantees and 77
       delegate agencies. Ninety-four of these agencies also have
       contracts with the California Department of Education (CDE) to
       administer General Child Care and/or State Preschool programs. Many
       of the programs are located at the same site.

     * State child care and development services in California are funded
       at over $1.6 billion in a mix of State and federal funds. The CDE,
       Child Development Division (CDD) currently has over 2,000 contracts
       dispersed through approximately 850 public and private agencies
       providing services to over 417,000 children.

   What is the California Head Start-State Collaboration Office?

   In 1990, the ACF funded the first "wave" of collaboration grants in 12
   states. The program was expanded in 1992, 1996, and 1997 so that now,
   all states participate. Each state is awarded between $125,000-$225,000
   yearly (with a 25 percent state match), for a five-year period.
   California was first awarded a grant in 1992 to the CDE, and the
   California Head Start-State Collaboration Office (CHSSCO) was created.

   The CHSSCO works closely with:
     * The California Head Start Association.
     * The ACF regional office.
     * The Head Start Bureau and the Child Care Bureau.
     * The Head Start regional technical assistance providers.
     * The CDE, other State departments, and other organizations and
       agencies in the child care and development community.

   The CHSSCO creates partnership activities in a yearly workplan leading
   to:
     * Improving access to health care services.
     * Improving the availability, accessibility, and quality of child
       care services.
     * Improving collaboration with welfare systems.
     * Expanding and improving education opportunities in early childhood
       programs.
     * Initiating interaction with the National Service Programs.
     * Improving access to family literacy services.
     * Improving opportunities for children with disabilities.
     * Increase opportunities for homeless children and families.

   In January of 1999, new collaboration priorities and requirements were
   established by the Head Start Bureau, including:
     * Mandates that the Collaboration Offices link with services to the
       homeless and State child care and resource and referral agencies,
       and foster unified planning for quality, full-day, full-year
       services.
     * Requirements that the Secretary of DHHS attempt to resolve barriers
       to collaboration with other child care programs and resolve
       administrative/programmatic conflicts which inhibit unified
       planning.
     * Granting permission for Head Start purchased equipment and supplies
       to be shared with non-Head Start participants in collaborative
       funding arrangements.
     * Requirements that grantees offer substance abuse counseling, inform
       single parents of child support services and refer eligible parents
       to child support agencies, collaborate with state child care and
       early childhood programs, and collaborate with programs for
       children with disabilities.
     * Allowing grantees to collect copayments when engaged in full-day
       partnerships with other agencies that collect copayments, provided
       that copayment rates not exceed those charged other families with
       similar incomes and circumstances.

   What has the CHSSCO accomplished?
     * Established an advisory committee with representatives from CHSA,
       Region IX, parents, the State Departments of Social Services,
       Health, Developmental Services, and other agencies.
     * Developed Bridges, a statewide newsletter which focuses on issues
       impacting Head Start and other child care and development programs.
     * Published Collaborative Partnerships, a written report on full-day,
       full-year child development services provided by Head Start and
       local partner agencies.
     * Developed sample Memo Of Understanding (MOU) for local WIC and Head
       Start programs.
     * Coordinated CDE/CDD training activities with Region IX Technical
       Assistance providers.
     * Developed contract with the CHSA to provide staff support to CHSSCO
       activities.
     * Developed, in cooperation with State Office of Child Support
       Enforcement, a brochure for Head Start families about Child Support
       services.

   Current and future activities:
     * Publish recommendations regarding full-day, full-year partnerships,
       guidance for programs by the Collaborative Partners Work Group.
     * Facilitate development of outcome based tools that meet both State
       and Head Start needs, called Desired Results Developmental Profile
       Plus.
     * Continue participation in Map for Inclusive Child Care project and
       other activities with the Department of Developmental Services and
       CDE/Special Education to support inclusion.
     * Collaborate with programs for homeless children and families.
     * Encourage Head Start involvement in California Children and
       Families First Act (Proposition 10) activities.
     * Action Plan implementation.

   For more information about the California Head Start-State
   Collaboration Office, please contact:

                          Michael Zito, Coordinator
                     California Department of Education
                       Head Start Collaboration Office
                           560 J Street, Suite 220
                            Sacramento, CA 95814
                            Phone: (916) 323-9727
                          E-mail: mzito@cde.ca.gov

   The California Head Start-State Collaboration Office is funded by the
   U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Administration on
   Children, Youth and Families, and the California Department of
   Education, Child Development Division.


   [--Choose a site.--]

                                Web Resources

                                    NHSA
                       National Head Start Association

                                    CHSA

                             Federal Head Start
                            ACF Head Start Bureau

                                    NAEYC
                        National Association for the
                         Education of Young Children

   NCCIC
   National Child Care Information Center

   Quality Improvement Center

     Healthy Families
   Healthy Families



   CHSSCO
   CHSSCO e-mail

            Copyright © by the California Department of Education
              California Head Start State Collaboration Office
                           560 J Street, Suite 220
                            Sacramento, CA  95814
                            Phone: (916) 323-9727
                             Fax: (916) 323-6853

   Last updated: December 7, 2001
