http://scarpia.lbl.gov/lbl_hif_rsch/focus_exp.html

            [hiflogotiny.jpg]

                              Theoretical Studies and Initiatives

   Final focus provides an excellent opportunity for theoretical analysis
   to point the way to improvement. To ignite the target, the heavy ion
   beams must be focused to a radius of several millimeters from a
   standoff distance of several meters (the distance from the target to
   the fusion chamber wall). Large-aperture magnetic quadrupole lenses
   located outside the chamber can provide adequate focusing if the
   transverse and longitudinal emittance of the beam and the beam current
   are sufficiently low. Most studies of heavy-ion-fusion power plants are
   based on this simple ballistic focusing scheme. Quantitatively, for
   ballistic focusing, the normalized transverse emittance must be less
   than about 10 pi mm-mr and the longitudinal emittance must be less than
   about 1 eV-s. While these values appear to be achievable, one could
   reduce the cost of the accelerator if these values could be relaxed.

   The limit on beam current is also an important constraint. If this
   current limit imposed by focusing could be relaxed, it would be
   possible to use accelerators that deliver low kinetic energy and high
   current. With induction accelerators, current is much cheaper to
   produce than kinetic energy, so improvements in final focusing would
   lead to greatly reduced accelerator cost. Improvements in focusing
   would also allow smaller focusing systems and more attractive fusion
   chamber designs. For these reasons, we have started a major theoretical
   and experimental initiative to explore more favorable focusing schemes.
   Advanced focusing schemes are essential for the success of fusion with
   the lighter ions. Sandia National Laboratory in Albuquerque, NM already
   has a large program to study these schemes. Our initiative is part of a
   tri-laboratory effort that involves them and also Lawrence Livermore
   National Laboratory.

   We are currently exploring three advanced concepts, all of which employ
   some kind of beam neutralization by electrons. The first is a variation
   of conventional ballistic focusing. The positively charged beams may be
   neutralized either by co-injected electrons or by electrons produced by
   the beam's ionization of a gas medium in the chamber. A gas is always
   present in the chamber, albeit at low pressures (~10^-5 to 10^-2 torr)
   that depend primarily on the chamber wall type and temperature. At the
   higher end of this pressure range, the gas will provide ample
   neutralizing electrons. This gas, along with x-rays from the target,
   strips beam ions above and beyond the charge state (+1 to +3) at which
   they entered the chamber. A rather complex beam electrodynamics
   situation results, which is only partially understood at present. All
   three members of the collaboration are currently using large-scale,
   particle-in-cell computer models to study this situation. Preliminary
   results are very encouraging: with neutralization, it appears possible
   to reduce the ion kinetic energy by a factor of two or more.


   [redstar1.gif] Return to Current LBNL IFE Research Activities
