http://www.accessamerica.gov/docs/governmentprocessess.html

   [USEMAP:headgovprocesses.gif]
   [USEMAP:leftnavs.gif]


                             VISION:
   Use Electronic Commerce to Streamline Government Procedures
                         Full statement

   Story Archive

      Children's Health Insurance Program
      [schip.jpg] SCHIP - the State Children's Health Insurance Program - is
      helping kids across America to grow up strong and healthy. Each state
      has a customized plan that provides free or low-cost health insurance
      to children in working families who don't have enough money to pay for
      insurance. States are working to enroll more children.

      [supremecourt.gif] U.S. Supreme Court Goes Online
      This brand new website contains everything a lawyer might need -- from
      case handling guides to bar admission applications. Even if your
      business isn't the law, you can still learn about long standing Court
      traditions and history, current case schedules, and even scheduling
      your own visit.
      President Signs Electronic Signature Act [compsig1.gif]
      The Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act - signed
      into law on June 30 -- means that online contracts will now have the
      same legal force as paper contracts.

      Join This Experiment in Interactive Legislation
      [egov.gif] Two senators launched a new website to invite public
      comments on improving electronic government. Senators Fred Thompson
      (R-TN) and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT) want you, as "digital citizens," to
      be partners in the legislative process. On this website, tell them how
      Congress can help create an electronic government and read what others
      are saying.

      [gpo.gif] Official Federal Government Information at Your Fingertips
      Need official Federal government information in a hurry? The Government
      Printing Office has it. GPO Access is one of the few official services
      that provide access to information from all three branches of the
      Federal Government.
