http://www.oshrc.gov/about/about.html

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [level2_banner.gif]
   About OSHRC

            The Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission

   The mission of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission is
   to provide fair and timely adjudication of workplace safety and health
   disputes between the Department of Labor and employers. In doing this,
   the Commission plays a vital role in encouraging safe and healthy
   workplaces for American workers.

   The cases in which the Review Commission renders decisions arise from
   inspections conducted by a Federal agency separate from the Review
   Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA),
   which is a part of the Department of Labor. OSHRC, or the Review
   Commission, and OSHA were created by the Occupational Safety and Health
   Act of 1970, but the Act mandated that the Review Commission be an
   independent agency (i.e., not part of another Federal department) to
   ensure that parties to agency cases receive impartial hearings.

   Upon notification that an employer or affected employees have contested
   a citation, OSHRC creates a case file. The Review Commission's Office
   of the Executive Secretary, which functions much like the court clerk's
   office, assigns docket numbers to each contest, or new case, at its
   National Office in Washington, D.C.  All affected parties are then
   notified by mail of the docketing of the case.

   Thereafter, the Chief ALJ assigns the case to a judge in Washington,
   D.C. or one of the agency's regional offices, in Atlanta and Denver.

   Commission Procedures

   OSHRC's Rules of Procedure provide for two levels of adjudication. The
   first level is before an Administrative Law Judge.  The second level is
   review of the ALJ's decisions by the agency's Commissioners in
   Washington if one of the parties petitions for review.

   The OSHRC Rules of Procedure may be found in Part 2200 of Title 29 of
   the Code of Federal Regulations, available here for downloading, or
   copies may be obtained from the agency's Public Information Office.
   These rules govern two types of proceedings.  The more formal
   conventional proceedings involve the use of pleadings, discovery, a
   hearing and post-hearing briefing or argument.  The less formal method,
   called EZ Trial, employs fewer legal procedures and is permitted in
   certain less complex cases and can be requested by either party.   In
   EZ Trial, there are no formal pleadings and early discussion among the
   parties to narrow the disputed issues is required.  Details on EZ Trial
   are in the Rules of Procedure.   Guide booklets to both conventional
   procedures and EZ Trial procedures are available here for downloading
   and from the Commission's Office of Public Information.

   Once a Hearing is Scheduled

   Upon receipt of a case by the assigned ALJ, a hearing date is set and a
   hearing site is selected as close as possible to where the alleged
   violation(s) occurred.  On the hearing date, the ALJ from the Review
   Commission conducts the adversarial proceedings in accordance with the
   Commission's Rules of Procedure.

   A cited employer or an affected employee may appear with or without
   legal counsel. The Secretary of Labor, OSHA's representative, is
   represented by a government attorney who bears the burden of proving
   the violation(s).

   Upon hearing all of the evidence, the judge will issue a written
   decision based on findings of fact and conclusions of law.  As part of
   the judge's decision, the citation(s) will be either affirmed, modified
   or vacated. The decision becomes final in 30 days unless within that
   period one of the parties requests that the decision of the ALJ be
   directed for review by the three OSHRC Commissioners in Washington,
   D.C. If one of the three Commissioners directs that the case be
   reviewed, they review all of the evidence, briefs, arguments and the
   ALJ's decisions.  Thereafter, they render a decision to affirm, modify
   or vacate citations and penalties that have been proposed by OSHA.

   Commission decisions, including Administrative Law Judge decisions, are
   available from the Information Office and more recent decisions can be
   accessed and downloaded from this web site.

   If review of the ALJ decisions by the Commissioners is not directed,
   the petitioning party may request review by an appropriate U.S. Circuit
   Court of Appeals.  Any person who is adversely affected or aggrieved
   may also appeal the decision of the three OSHRC Commissioners to an
   appropriate United States Court of Appeals.  Review by a Court of
   Appeals must be sought within 60 days after the Commission's final
   decision is issued.

   Additional Information

   It is important to recognize that OSHRC is the independent Federal
   agency that serves as the court system to adjudicate disputes between
   employers and employees and the Secretary of Labor arising from
   contested work place safety inspections.  OSHA is a separate agency, in
   the U.S. Department of Labor, that is responsible for setting work
   place safety and health standards and inspecting work places to enforce
   compliance with those standards.

   Important OSHRC Telephone Numbers



   Chairman Thomasina V. Rogers

                                               202-606-5370

   Executive Director Patricia A. Randle

                                               202-606-5380

   Executive Secretary Ray H. Darling, Jr.

                                               202-606-5400

   Public Information Officer Linda A. Whitsett
   E-mail: lwgpo@oshrc.gov

                                               202-606-5398

   Fax

                                               202-606-5050

   Last Updated: May 11, 2001
   Green Rule

    Home | About OSHRC | Procedural Rules | Decisions | Strategic Plan |
                             Performance Report
     Budget | Publications | Press Releases | FOIA | Related Websites |
                            Disclaimer | OSH Act
