http://sandiego.fbi.gov/contact/fo/sandiego/invprog.htm


                               San Diego FBI

                         San Diego Beach Photo

                                              FBI Seal

                                                                                San Diego Beach Photo

              Investigative Programs of the San Diego Division

   Crime today is more varied than ever. The FBI’s jurisdiction involves
   violations of federal law ranging from high-tech computer intrusions,
   organized criminal groups, violent crime, and criminal deceit crossing
   state lines. The FBI is keeping up with all emerging types of crime as
   we enter the 21st Century. The FBI targets traditional crimes such as
   bank robberies, drug trafficking and high technology crimes involving
   computer intrusions and damage to network computer infrastructures. The
   FBI is the United States’ primary domestic and international counter
   terrorism law enforcement agency and is actively involved in efforts to
   stem weapons of mass destruction.



                           Current Investigations

     * Operation Lone Wolf
     * Operation Bullpen
     * Operation Sure Buck
     * Operation Twisted Metal


   Public Corruption: The FBI has a continuing responsibility to respond
   to all allegations involving the abuse of trust by Public Officials.
   The FBI will investigate a public official, whether elected or
   appointed, where there is sufficient evidence of corruption. A
   particular problem along the Southwest international border is the
   recruitment of public officials by drug traffickers who seek assistance
   in facilitating the illegal importation and distribution of drugs. If
   you are aware of criminal activity involving corruption of public
   officials, please contact the San Diego Public Corruption Hotline toll
   free at 1-888-324-3728.

   Hi Tech/Computer Network Crime: United States Government agencies and
   businesses are vulnerable to attacks that are designed to alter, steal,
   or destroy information contained in their computer systems. Attacks are
   also launched for the purpose of disabling a system with the potential
   to shut organizations down. The FBI has established the National
   Infrastructure Protection Center (NIPC) to conduct computer
   investigations and the San Diego Division has established a Cyber Squad
   for NIPC investigations. NIPC conducts state-of-the-art computer
   investigations, both nationally and internationally, and includes
   representatives from many government agencies. The threats handled by
   the Cyber Squad are among the most challenging and dynamic problems
   that the FBI now addresses in meeting its national security and
   criminal missions.

   The San Diego Cyber Squad also investigates the systematic infringement
   of intellectual property rights. The proliferation of computers and
   computer networks has made the illegal reproduction and distribution of
   protected material much easier than ever to accomplish. Information
   itself has become increasingly valuable and the focus of foreign
   espionage is in some instances directed to obtaining valuable
   proprietary information from United States businesses. The FBI engages
   in sophisticated investigations of certain thefts of intellectual
   property when the conduct exceeds available civil remedies.

   Economic Crimes: The San Diego Division of the FBI investigates a wide
   variety of economic crimes. Our referrals for these investigations come
   from the public, from victims of criminal activity and from
   representatives of financial entities and the securities industry. In
   addition to schemes by national and international con-men, fraud
   schemes involve the use of the United States mail and/or interstate
   wires, including computers, to commit:

   Telemarketing Fraud: Unscrupulous telemarketers prey upon citizens by
   dishonestly enticing them into fraudulent charitable causes, prize
   promotions, investment frauds and insurance frauds. This booming
   business in telemarketing costs U.S. citizens billions in annual losses
   as well as personal anguish.

   Bankruptcy Fraud: Criminal bankruptcy misuse occurs when individuals
   and corporations conceal and misdate assets, mislead creditors, or
   illegally pressure bankruptcy petitioners.

   Environmental Crimes: The San Diego Division investigates a full range
   of environmental crimes, including water pollution violations, wetland
   violations and spills of hazardous substances.

   Securities Fraud: Substantial allegations of criminal activity related
   to market manipulation, insider trading, thefts from securities
   accounts and wire fraud are vigorously pursued. The volatile and
   expanding nature of the securities industry has made securities fraud a
   tempting target for unscrupulous con-men.

   Financial Institution Fraud: Criminal acts perpetrated by bankers,
   business people, developers, real estate brokers, lawyers and others
   against federally insured financial institutions creates huge economic
   losses for the government and all tax payers.

   Civil Rights: The FBI investigates hate crimes and misuse of official
   force when, based on their severity, they cannot be addressed
   appropriately on the local or state levels.  These cases must meet
   guidelines established by the United States Attorney General and the
   FBI for federal criminal civil rights investigations.

   Health Care Fraud: The FBI investigates all forms of fraud affecting
   both government sponsored and privately insured health benefit
   programs. While most health care professionals and businesses operate
   legitimately, economic losses attributable to criminal wrong doing cost
   the public and private insurance industry billions of dollars each
   year. The San Diego Division investigates many different health care
   frauds, including insurance provider fraud, staged automobile accidents
   and fraud by health care agencies, ambulance companies, medical
   equipment companies, chiropractors and physicians. This fraud often
   involves Medicare, Medi-cal and pharmaceutical diversions.

   Governmental Fraud: Criminal conduct arises when individuals through
   deceit or dishonesty interfere with the functioning of the federal
   government and its programs. The FBI investigates fraud against
   numerous agencies of the federal government, including the Department
   of Defense, the Small Business Administration, the Department of
   Housing and Urban Development, and numerous others.

   Organized Crime/Drug Investigations: San Diego Division conducts
   investigations involving criminal enterprises conducting drug
   trafficking and organized crime. The investigations are complex and
   utilize the most sophisticated techniques, including undercover
   operations and electronic surveillance. Investigative resources are
   used against major international and domestic criminal organizations
   that control significant segments of illegal traffic. The FBI works to
   disrupt and dismantle the criminal enterprises through prosecution and
   the seizure and forfeiture of criminally-derived assets. The San Diego
   Division's organized crime/drug program coordinates its investigative
   efforts with other local, state and federal law enforcement agencies.
   Many investigations are conducted through task forces such as the
   Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF), the High
   Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Task Force (HIDTA) and certain
   case-specific task forces.

   Violent Crime: San Diego Division investigates dangerous crimes
   involving bank robberies, kidnappings, extortion, sexual exploitation
   of children, and other federal offenses. While the FBI is well known
   for capturing bank robbers, it also plays major roles in multi-agency
   task forces in San Diego targeting violent street gangs and fugitives.
   The Gang Task Force is responsible for the arrest and convictions of
   hundreds of gang members. The Fugitive Task Force has apprehended well
   over 5,000 fugitives wanted for offenses committed in San Diego County.

   Weapons of Mass Destruction and Terrorism: The FBI is the lead agency
   in the fight against terrorism in and against the United States.
   Terrorism is defined by the FBI as “the unlawful use of force or
   violence against persons or property to intimidate or coerce a
   government, the civilian population, or any segments thereof, in
   furtherance of political or social objectives.” Terrorism can originate
   from international sources, as happened in the World Trade Center
   bombing in New York City, from domestic sources, as seen in the
   Oklahoma City bombing, or even target Americans in overseas settings as
   occurred in the bombings of American embassies in Africa.

   The FBI is the lead agency in responding to acts of Nuclear,
   Biological, or Chemical terrorism. The FBI provides an immediate
   response in the event of an act of terror within the United States and
   works closely with other federal and state agencies, as well as
   overseas institutions, to interdict weapons of mass destruction and
   prevent and/or investigate acts of terrorism.

   Counterintelligence: Foreign Counter-Intelligence actions by the San
   Diego Division are designed to detect and thwart the intelligence
   collection activities by foreign powers and their agents. San Diego is
   an attractive and vulnerable target due to the numerous military
   installations and defense contractors in the area. San Diego Division
   takes aggressive measures to reduce the vulnerabilities of the United
   States to illegal intelligence gathering.

                     Return to FBI San Diego Home Page.
