http://fire.pppl.gov/PCAST_wellspring_2000.pdf

   Wellspring Wellspring of Pr of osperity Prosperity Science and
   Technology Science and Technology in the U.S. Economy in the U.S.
   Economy How Investments in Discovery How Investments in Discovery Are
   Making Our Lives Better Are Making Our Lives Better President' Pr Pr s
   esident' esident' Committee of Advisors on Science and T ss echnology
   Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology Committee of Advisors
   on Science and Technology President's Committee of Advisors on Science
   and Technology Wellspring of Prosperity Science and Technology in the
   U.S. Economy How Investments in Discovery Are Making Our Lives Better
   Spring 2000 Foreword EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT PRESIDENT'S
   COMMITTEE OF ADVISORS ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY WASHINGTON, D.C. 20502
   In 1999, Vice President Gore requested the President's Committee of
   Advisors on Science and Technology Policy (PCAST) to prepare a concise
   report on ways in which science and technology have contributed to the
   U.S. economy and to the well-being of the American people in their
   daily lives. The members of PCAST reviewed the many ways in which
   far-sighted investments in research and development activities during
   the past half-century have enriched Americans' health, security,
   environment, and general quality of life. We discussed the challenges
   to sustain these R&D investments-both in the short term and over the
   long haul-so that the scientific wellspring will continue to generate
   prosperity well into the next century. We also emphasized that the
   promise of technology's contributions must be met by developing a
   skilled and flexible workforce and in fostering opportunities for
   education and lifelong learning for all Americans. This short report
   examines several areas in which science and technology have blossomed
   from wise and bal- anced investments in research and development over
   the past several decades. Only a short time ago, many of the
   technological wonders we now take for granted would have been
   considered fantasy or science fiction. We note that, in particular,
   information technologies, based on much more basic research, have led
   the way in so many fields. We hope the readers of this brief overview
   will learn from these success stories and will reflect on the link- age
   between a wide variety of interdisciplinary discoveries that now make
   our economy stronger and our lives easier and more rewarding. And we
   hope that Americans will also understand that we must continue the
   stream of such investments to ensure that our current prosperity
   endures. Our Committee congratulates the Clinton-Gore Administration
   for its appreciation of the importance of a strong and well-balanced
   science and technology portfolio - and for its hard work and foresight
   in keeping the wellspring flowing, allowing us and future generations
   to build a better America for the 21st century. Neal Lane John Young ii
   President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology Wellspring
   of Prosperity Table of Contents Wellspring of Prosperity Science and
   Technology in the U.S. Economy How Investments in Discovery Are Making
   Our Lives Better Spring 2000 Foreword ii Message from the Vice
   President iv Introduction 1 Chapter 1 Information Technologies 3
   Chapter 2 Global Positioning System 7 Chapter 3 Biomedical Technologies
   11 Chapter 4 Food Technologies 15 Chapter 5 Environmental Technologies
   19 Chapter 6 Manufacturing Technologies 23 Epilogue 29 About PCAST 30
   Acknowledgments 31 Wellspring of Prosperity President's Committee of
   Advisors on Science and Technology iii Since the earliest days of our
   nation's birth, the American experience has been defined by our
   boundless search for new frontiers, our ceaseless quest for new
   discoveries, and our restless pursuit of new knowledge. Today, perhaps
   more than at any time in our history, the strength of our economy, the
   health of our families, and the quality of our lives depend upon
   America's unmatched science and technology enterprise. At the dawn of a
   new century, much of our success in the years ahead will depend in
   large measure on the investments we make today in scientific research
   and technological innovation. President Clinton and I are unequivocally
   committed to sustaining and nurturing U.S. scientific leadership across
   the frontiers of scientific knowledge. This is not merely a cultural
   tradition of our nation. It is an economic and security imperative. We
   must rise to this challenge while ensuring that our newest and most
   advanced technologies incorporate our oldest and most cherished values.
   Whether measured in terms of discoveries, citations, or prizes, our
   country's prior investments have yielded a scientific and engineering
   enterprise without peer. Over the past several decades, public
   investments in research have helped America's scientists and engineers
   split the atom, splice the gene, explore the moon, invent the
   microchip, create the laser, and build the Internet - and in the
   process millions of good-paying jobs have been created. To spur
   America's future achievements in science and engineering, the
   Administration has acted in a variety of roles: sustaining our research
   leadership position; strengthening a business environment that supports
   private sector research and development; investing in technological
   infrastructure; and advancing critical technologies, often in
   partnership with our universities and industries. The accomplishments
   and initiatives described in this report are representative of our
   research and development portfolio that has enjoyed broad bipartisan
   support. It is, of course, impossible to accurately predict which areas
   of science and engineering will yield ground-breaking discoveries, what
   those inventions will be, how they will impact other scientific
   disciplines and, eventually, benefit our daily lives. Who can be sure
   exactly what advances will be needed to maintain our national security
   and our strong economy, or clean up our environment and develop a
   healthier, better-educated citizenry? What we can ensure is that
   America remains at the forefront of scientific capability by sustaining
   our investments in basic research, thereby enhancing our ability to
   shape a more prosperous future for ourselves, our children, and future
   generations while building a better America for the twenty-first
   century. Al Gore iv President's Committee of Advisors on Science and
   Technology Wellspring of Prosperity Introduction Wellspring of
   Prosperity Science and Technology in the U.S. Economy As experts seek
   explanations for America's record- The technologies covered here -
   those dealing with breaking performance in the current world economy,
   information, global positioning, biotechnology, food, it is tempting to
   credit our bountiful natural resources the environment, and
   manufacturing - illustrate how and our diverse, hardworking population.
   But many other much we have come to rely on technology and take it for
   countries - and even our own ancestors - have enjoyed granted in our
   everyday lives. But the marvels of today are similar resources without
   producing an economic boom really the fruits of research seeds planted
   decades ago - such as the United States achieved in the late 20th
   century. investments that have not only given us new technologies, The
   credit for our recent success really goes to the power- but have also
   helped educate generations of engineers ful system we have generated to
   create new knowledge and scientists who now form an essential component
   of and develop it into technologies that drive our economy, our modern
   workforce. The very fact that these advances guarantee our national
   security, and improve our health required decades of investment stands
   as a warning against and quality of life. complacency in our future
   investment strategy. As the Vice This report explores some of the
   remarkable, tangible President has noted, the government and the
   private sec- benefits to our nation from the sustained funding of tor
   must work together to ensure that today's investments research and
   development (R&D). The President's in research and development are
   sufficient to yield similar Committee of Advisors on Science and
   Technology payoffs to society in the 21st century. Close cooperation
   (PCAST) prepared this report in response to Vice with our international
   partners is also crucial to the suc- President Gore's request. The Vice
   President called for cess of this venture, since scientific
   breakthroughs occur a new compact between our scientific community and
   our with no regard for national borders. government - one that would
   emphasize support for fun- damental science and a shared responsibility
   to shape our Research Pays Economic Dividends breakthroughs into
   progress. The Vice President turned The President's Council of Economic
   Advisors and other to PCAST for help in illuminating the benefits of
   our economists have pointed out the high rates of return on past and
   present investments in science and technology. investments in research
   and development. This past Wellspring of Prosperity President's
   Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology 1 spring, Federal
   Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan repeat- * The Federal investment in
   science and technology edly cited an unexpected leap in technology as
   primarily must support a diverse portfolio of research, includ-
   responsible for the nation's record-breaking economic ing both basic
   and applied science. performance. In particular, a technology-based
   surge in * Stability of funding is essential. productivity appears to
   be contributing substantially to Federal investment played an important
   role in the our economic success. development of all the technologies
   described in this This report only hints at the many non-economic bene-
   report - particularly in cases where the results of research fits that
   result from investments in science and technology. were not clear at
   the outset. For example, when Federal Our military strength - built on
   a foundation of high funding began for the forerunners of today's
   Internet, no technology - has enabled the United States to keep one
   knew what computer networking could accomplish - America safe from
   aggression, defend our allies, and fos- or how far and how quickly it
   would spread. The same is ter democracies across the globe. New
   technologies also true of the Federal role in the development of lasers
   and improve the quality of our lives. Medical research in phar- global
   positioning systems. All of these investments, made maceuticals,
   biotechnology, and medical devices promises because the research was
   fundamentally important and us a healthier life. Environmental research
   offers cleaner was needed to fulfill government agency missions,
   eventu- air, water, and soil through better monitoring, prevention,
   ally changed the way businesses and governments operate and remediation
   technologies. Advanced monitoring and and enhanced our daily lives.
   forecasting technologies - from satellites to simulation - The Federal
   government also plays a vital role in ensur- help save lives and
   minimize property damage caused by ing the scientific and technical
   literacy of the U.S. popula- hurricanes, blizzards, and other severe
   weather. tion. In our rapidly changing economy, continual learning
   Agricultural research yields a cornucopia of safer, must become a way
   of life. All Americans need a solid healthier, and tastier food
   products. Automobile research education in science, mathematics, and
   technology to leads to cars that are safer, cleaner, more
   energy-efficient, gain the skills necessary to participate in
   tomorrow's work- and more intelligent. Aeronautical technology makes
   air force, to stay informed about issues, and to understand travel
   safer. Energy research delivers cleaner fuels and our increasingly
   complex world. Additional challenges for reduces American dependence on
   foreign resources. education today include a rapidly diversifying
   population, Information and telecommunications technologies growing
   international commerce and cultural influences, enable instantaneous
   communications across the globe. an information technology revolution,
   and a heightened pace of change in the workplace. The Federal govern-
   PCAST Investment Principles ment, in partnerships with the states,
   business and indus- As it advises the President, PCAST supports a
   steady fund- try, and academic institutions, has undertaken an ambi-
   ing stream for scientific and technological advances to tious agenda to
   foster lifelong learning - from K-12 help ensure prosperity and
   well-being for our children through undergraduate and graduate school,
   and on to and grandchildren. The following principles - first workplace
   training. To fulfill this task, we must employ adopted by PCAST in 1995
   to guide the nation's invest- the best educational strategies, based on
   solid research. ment in science and technology - remain vital to our
   The members of PCAST, closely linked to all the stake- nation's success
   in the 21st century. holders in the national and international science
   and * Science and technology are major determinants technology
   enterprise, represent a network of advice and of the American economy
   and quality of life. support that contributed greatly to this report.
   There is * Public support of science and technology is an much to
   admire in the multiple reports issued by various investment in the
   future. stakeholders in the past few years calling for a renewed *
   Education and training are crucial to America's commitment to
   investment in science and technology. future. This report illustrates
   some of the payoffs from those * The Federal government should continue
   to support investments and underscores the need for sustained strong
   research institutions and infrastructure. and cooperative support in
   the 21st century to avoid the dangers and seize the opportunities. 2
   President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology Wellspring
   of Prosperity Chapter 1 Information Technologies Americans are so
   accustomed to the presence of com- will employ half the U.S. workforce
   by 2006. These jobs puters in our daily lives that we are amazed to
   discover will pay significantly higher wages than jobs in other that
   early computer experts did not foresee much demand sectors. For
   example, in 1996, the 7.4 million people for these specialized
   machines. For example, the chair- employed in the IT sector and in
   IT-related jobs across man of IBM, Thomas Watson, stated in the 1940s,
   "There the economy earned an average of about $46,000 per is a world
   market for maybe five computers." Since then, year, compared to an
   average of $28,000 for jobs across a succession of breakthroughs has
   created a new economic the entire private sector. sector: Information
   Technologies (IT) - the ever grow- ing variety of ways in which we are
   able to gather, store, Historical Importance of Federal Funding
   analyze, share, and display information. Much of the innovation that
   spawned today's information Estimates of the total number of computers
   in the world technologies resulted directly from Federal investment now
   exceed 500 million, or more than triple the total in in science and
   technology. Starting in 1969, when the 1991. The proportion of U.S.
   households with computers Department of Defense opened its experimental
   nation- has jumped from 15 percent to more than 40 percent. wide
   computer network through the Advanced Research U.S. schools now count
   one computer for about every six Projects Agency (ARPA), computer
   networking has espe- students, up from one machine for every 63
   students in cially benefited from Federal research and development the
   mid-1980s. funding. The National Science Foundation (NSF) extended The
   economic implications of this growth are unmistak- ARPA's network to
   civilian academic users in 1987. These able. Between 1995 and 1998,
   producers of computer and networks marked the convergence of computing
   and communications hardware, software, and services account-
   communications, one of the main drivers of information ed for an
   average of 35 percent of the U.S. gross domestic technologies in the
   1990s. Networking - linking comput- product (GDP). During this same
   period, IT represented ers together to share data - has since become
   one of the 60 percent of U.S. corporations' capital investments. On
   fastest growing areas of computing. The Internet emerged average, 20
   U.S. technology and telecommunications com- from the joint effort by
   Federal agencies and universities panies are born every day. Industries
   that are either major to advance networking technology. producers or
   intensive users of IT products and services Wellspring of Prosperity
   President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology 3 Federal
   agencies also contributed to the steady decrease con chips to form
   modern microprocessors. In 1949, in the size of computers and the
   exponential growth of Popular Mechanics predicted: "Where a computer
   like computing power. The transformation from expensive, the ENIAC is
   equipped with 18,000 vacuum tubes and room-size computers to laptops
   vividly illustrates the way weighs 30 tons, computers in the future may
   have only science and technology, through a series of chance events,
   1,000 vacuum tubes and weigh only 1.5 tons." In the sometimes lead us
   in unforeseen directions. days before the transistor, this may have
   seemed a daring The period between 1947 and 1960 saw many separate
   prediction, but today we are on the verge of technology but ultimately
   related breakthroughs that combined to that will create microprocessors
   as small as a molecule. produce a revolution in computer hardware.
   Electrical engineers invented the transistor and later developed the
   Rapid Pace of Improvements integrated circuit; materials scientists
   discovered semicon- Miniaturization causes prices to spiral downward,
   making ductors and the uses of silicon; and physicists developed the
   technology affordable for larger numbers of small busi- the laser. The
   laser, once seen as an interesting but nesses, local governments,
   schools, libraries, families, and unpromising technology, has become
   the signal beacon individuals. During this decade alone, the cost of
   micro- that we use to transmit information, carrying light waves
   processors has dropped sharply, as has the price of silicon- over
   optical-fiber networks that connect many parts of based computer
   memory. In 1991, the cost of the process- the globe. The laser also led
   to fundamental advances in ing power required to perform a million
   instructions per lithography, the process used to etch transistors onto
   sili- second - or MIPS, a standard performance metric - was The
   Internet Economy The Internet's rapid growth in popularity is unparal-
   leled in the history of communications. Radio existed for 38 years
   before 50 million tuned in; TV took 13 years to reach that benchmark.
   The Internet crossed that popularity threshold within four years after
   opening to the general public in 1991, and today an estimated 80
   million Americans have access at home or at work. The Internet has
   quickly become a significant eco- nomic force, offering a new avenue
   for consumer and business-to-business transactions. The U.S. "Internet
   economy" grew at a compounded annual rate of 174.5 percent between 1995
   and 1998, as compared with 2.8 percent for the national economy as a
   whole. The Internet economy generated revenues totaling an estimated
   $301 billion in 1998. Employing more than a million people, the
   Internet economy now rivals the automobile industry and other major
   established sectors in size. Retail sales on the Internet are also
   climbing rapidly. In 1997, private analysts forecast that the value of
   Internet retailing could reach $7 billion by upward to between $40
   billion and $80 billion by 2002. 2000. In fact, the 1998 level was 50
   percent greater than Direct, business-to-business commerce on the
   Internet that estimate, causing analysts to revise their estimates is
   forecast to surpass $1.3 trillion per year by 2002. 4 President's
   Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology Wellspring of
   Prosperity Forecasting Severe Weather On May 3, 1999, more than 70
   tornadoes rampaged increasing indications in their computer modeling
   across Oklahoma and Kansas. Several days earlier, data that the
   environment in their region would National Weather Service (NWS)
   forecasters had seen support severe storms in the coming days. (NWS
   super- computers continuously feed such data to field offices around
   the country to help them make twice-daily forecasts.) As the Oklahoma
   and Kansas storms developed on May 3, the NWS staff was thoroughly
   prepared for the intense work that lay ahead to analyze the storms and
   predict their likely paths, enabling real- time forecasts. As a result,
   some areas were warned of the impending fury up to 60 minutes before
   the arrival of severe weather. More than 1,000 tornadoes occur in the
   United States every year. Since the early 1990s, technological progress
   in detecting, monitoring, and modeling such storms has doubled average
   lead times for tornado warnings, from a nationwide average of less than
   four minutes to more than 11 minutes. Using the sophisti- cated
   Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System, which is now installed
   at NWS forecast offices through- out the United States, forecasters can
   process, display, and integrate huge amounts of storm data much more
   efficiently, adding to the speed and accuracy of warn- ings to
   emergency managers, the media, and the public. Ultimately, with
   continuing upgrades of technology Advance warning of this May 3, 1999
   tornado, made and progress in science, the NWS expects to deliver
   possible by NWS technology, enabled officials to order the reliable
   warnings at least three hours before the onset safe evacuation of
   millions of residents. of severe weather. $230. By 1997, the cost of
   one MIPS' worth of computing simulating variations in aeronautical
   design, and designing power was $3.42. As a result, today's desktop and
   laptop new drugs. These efforts depend on improvements in com-
   computers pack the processing power equivalent to what puter software
   as well as hardware. Mathematics holds the would have been a
   supercomputer only a few chip-genera- key to the efficient trade-offs
   in processing speeds, message tions ago. Advances also continue at the
   high end of com- passing, and use of memory that make up programming
   puting. State-of-the-art supercomputers can perform tril- code. Recent
   advances in this area of science have generated lions of operations per
   second. Federal research in high- a proliferation of software for
   professional and everyday performance computing envisions machines
   within the uses. In terms of economic impact, the software and com-
   next ten years that will be thousands of times more power- puter
   services sector has more than doubled in size since ful, performing a
   quadrillion operations per second. 1990, growing to a $152 billion
   business by 1998 and Vast increases in computing power have led
   scientists roughly equaling the size of the computer hardware sector.
   and engineers to tackle problems once considered beyond The
   industrialized world has integrated information tech- the limits of
   human study - such challenges as long-range nologies throughout almost
   all economic sectors and social weather forecasting, modeling
   thermonuclear explosions, institutions. We use IT when we listen to a
   weather forecast, Wellspring of Prosperity President's Committee of
   Advisors on Science and Technology 5 Libraries With Instant Access A
   $30 million cooperative initiative of several Federal Poetry lovers
   will still want to own a personal copy of agencies will soon provide a
   national library of text, Dante's Inferno, but every student who needs
   to read it images, sound recordings, and other materials to every will
   be able to download it instantly - and never have schoolchild (and all
   other Americans) with access to to pay an overdue fine! the Internet.
   The library will include countless num- bers of books that are in the
   public domain, such as the complete works of Shakespeare, Mark Twain,
   the Greek philosophers, and the Federalist Papers. In addi- tion,
   children will have virtual access to such things as the Apollo 11
   command module, the Gettysburg battlefield, and Rose Kennedy's personal
   tour of the John F. Kennedy birthplace. Students and their teachers
   will also be able to find a digital library for math and science
   education as part of the new initiative. The collection will include
   high-quality resources and provide hands-on, interac- tive content that
   makes math and science come alive and enables students to "learn by
   doing." Technology can help make America's treasures avail- able to all
   citizens. It will still be a thrill to visit Ellis Island in person,
   but those who can't make the trip Digital libraries will provide all
   Americans with unprecedented will still have online access to its
   immigration records. access to information. enjoy music on a CD, or
   watch a movie on DVD. The free signs. A tiny transmitter will
   continuously relay the data exchange of information made possible by
   the Internet has back to a command post for analysis by larger
   computers had a democratizing influence in other parts of the world, as
   part of an ongoing, real-time decision-making process. and small but
   innovative entrepreneurs now have opportu- As a result, commanders will
   have many more options nities to market their ideas on a worldwide
   scale that would available at an earlier stage, improving the chances
   for have been impossible to imagine 20 years ago. military success.
   Closer to home, we need only consider that there are Information
   Technologies of Tomorrow an estimated 20 billion microprocessors
   embedded in The evolution of information technologies has surpassed
   products around the world other than computers: our expectations for
   more than a half-century, and the next cars, watches, air conditioners,
   microwave ovens, and VCRs. 50 years hold even greater promise. As
   researchers improve Soon we will live in "smart houses," where we will
   plug dish- the intelligence capabilities of computers - particularly
   washers, clocks, stereos, and other household appliances the ability to
   imitate the human process of reasoning - into the Internet along with
   the electric power grid. At they will become an integral support in key
   decision that point, instead of e-mailing home to ask the family to
   processes. Decisions that include large numbers of factors start
   dinner, we'll be able to e-mail our kitchen appliances involving
   natural and human processes, such as those on directly and order them
   to move the lasagna from the the military battlefield, will benefit
   from this capability. refrigerator to the oven and cook it at 375° for
   45 minutes. Soldiers will carry wireless devices with sensors that will
   The marvels of the Information Age are limited only by "read" their
   surroundings - physical terrain, air quality, the imagination of future
   engineers and consumers. and compass direction - as well as the
   soldier's own vital 6 President's Committee of Advisors on Science and
   Technology Wellspring of Prosperity Chapter 2 Global Positioning System
   What would it be worth if you could pinpoint your ABreakthrough Based
   on Basic Research location anywhere on Earth, whenever you might The
   GPS we use today would not have been possible without need to know it,
   to an accuracy within a few hundred feet, basic scientific research in
   atomic and molecular physics or using only an inexpensive handheld
   device? Would you advances in satellite, launch vehicle, and
   telecommunica- answer this question differently if you were an airline
   pilot tions technology. GPS technology actually grew out of pure
   concerned that you had drifted off course? What if you physics
   research, starting in the 1930s, by scientists studying were general
   manager of a trucking company trying to the nature of the universe and
   how to measure time exactly. save time and money as you schedule the
   next two days' By the 1950s, this research had developed extremely
   accurate pickups and deliveries for a fleet of 200 long-haul trucks?
   atomic clocks, which would later be crucial in developing What if you
   were a weekend sailor sending a distress radio the concept of GPS. The
   advent of space satellites, with the call because you're in danger?
   Soviet Union's launch of Sputnik I in 1957, allowed scien- During the
   past decade, real people like those described - tists and engineers to
   envision a system of navigation that and thousands of others in a wide
   range of scenarios - would rely on satellite signals keyed to precise
   timekeeping. have relied increasingly on the Global Positioning System
   By 1973, the Department of Defense had approved the navi- (GPS) to
   calculate precise location. This ability, undreamed gational concept
   that became GPS. Rockwell International of before the age of
   satellites, has already saved countless began building the Navstar
   satellites that make up the GPS lives and dollars for those who use it.
   constellation, each the size of a large automobile and weigh- GPS
   consists of a constellation of 24 satellites that orbit ing slightly
   less than a ton. In 1978, the first GPS satellite the Earth every 12
   hours, each emitting radio signals coded became operational; by 1993,
   the full 24-satellite system was with data about its position and the
   time - accurate to in use. Technological advances in solid state
   electronics, within a billionth of a second. The satellites are
   deployed microchips, and microwaves also contributed to the com- so
   that every point on Earth can always receive signals from mercial
   success of GPS. In 1983, the first GPS receivers cost at least four
   satellites. Receivers on Earth interpret these over $150,000 and
   weighed more than 100 pounds. Today, signals to pinpoint their own
   positions, anywhere on the a handheld GPS receiver weighing less than a
   pound can globe, at any time of day or night, in any kind of weather.
   be purchased for less than $100. Wellspring of Prosperity President's
   Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology 7 Mapping Remote
   Regions GPS technology has become instrumental in efforts to map remote
   regions. The GPS network enables cartographers to create extremely
   accurate maps of previously uncharted territory. GPS has brought
   enormous bene- ized map of China Camp that can holds, three rivers,
   major roads fits to people who live, work, and be used by visitors as
   well as emer- (permanent and seasonal), mos- play in uncharted terrain.
   For gency personnel. These maps have quito breeding sites, medicine
   example, there was no reliable map decreased the department's aver-
   stores, local health clinics, a lake- of China Camp, a 1,600-acre site
   age emergency response time to shore, and other relevant features. in
   Marin County, CA, which draws 20 minutes. By providing more accurate
   maps more than 2,000 hikers, campers, Across the globe, in sub-Saharan
   of locales - and even establishing and mountain bikers every summer.
   Africa, malaria takes the lives of clear correlations between specific
   Firefighters sometimes needed an more than 1.5 million infants and
   dwellings and frequency of illness - hour or more to locate a wildfire
   - children under the age of five each the project has quickly
   demonstrated and even more time to find a lost year. In 1995, the U.S.
   Centers for the practical value of GPS for or injured hiker. Now
   firefighters Disease Control and Prevention researching tropical
   diseases ride the trails of the park on a (CDC) initiated a five-year
   study of in remote locations. mountain bike, using GPS data to the
   disease, using GPS equipment follow a highly accurate computer- to map
   the location of 450 house- Most Americans first became aware of GPS
   when the went down in the northwestern part of Serbia during U.S.
   military used it successfully in the 1991 Gulf War Operation Allied
   Force in the liberation of Kosovo. to target "smart" bombs and cruise
   missiles. In the deserts The American pilot was rescued by NATO forces
   and of Kuwait and Iraq, GPS gave U.S. forces a precise and taken to
   safety within a matter of two hours, thanks to reliable sense of where
   they were in unfamiliar territory. GPS technology. GPS again made
   headlines in 1999, when a U.S. F-16 8 President's Committee of Advisors
   on Science and Technology Wellspring of Prosperity A Robust Economic
   Force works of fiber optics, coaxial cable, copper wire, radio, GPS is
   now a dual-use technology with civilian uses and communication
   satellites have become essential that rival its continuing military
   role. President Clinton to daily commerce. announced in 1996 that the
   U.S. government would Like many of the other technologies covered in
   this continue providing GPS signals to the world free of report, global
   positioning - in both its history and direct user fees, as a public
   good. GPS has since devel- its current uses  draws on the breakthroughs
   in the oped into a multi-billion-dollar international industry,
   Information Technology field; we highlight it here creating thousands
   of new jobs while saving lives and mainly because of its amazing
   economic promise. The bringing many other benefits. The number of
   compa- global GPS market, currently estimated at more than nies
   identifying themselves as providers of some sort of $2 billion per
   year, is projected to expand to $30 billion GPS-related goods or
   services has grown from 109 firms annually before 2030. GPS receivers
   and transmitters in 1992 to 301 firms in 1997. Even though relatively
   few may soon be smaller than credit cards - and cheap of these firms
   compete to provide the core GPS technol- enough for use in almost any
   vehicle, cell phone, or ogy, a large number of firms provide
   GPS-enhanced pocket, for that matter. With every square yard on
   products and value-added services. The technology has Earth measured
   and labeled with an address, and with clearly carved out a crucial role
   for itself in the global computerized databases available that give
   latitude and information infrastructure. The precise GPS timing
   longitude as well as addresses, it's conceivable that no signals that
   help synchronize global information net- one will ever need to ask
   directions again. Saving Lives Mitch Buffim of Buffalo, New York, knows
   firsthand and death. If help can arrive ten minutes sooner what GPS can
   do. Buffim is one of 500 volunteers in during this first hour, 9,000
   lives may be saved across Erie County who are testing a new GPS-based
   automat- the nation each year. ic collision notification (ACN) system.
   After working a late shift one night last April, Buffim fell asleep at
   the wheel while driving home on a rural road. His car ran off the road,
   rolled on its side, and slid down a steep embankment. With no witnesses
   and his car invisible from the roadway, he could have waited hours for
   help. However, almost before the car stopped moving, Buffim heard the
   emergency dispatcher's voice in the car. "This is Erie County Dispatch.
   We have your loca- tion. Are there any injuries? How many occupants are
   in your car?" Thanks to the ACN system in Buffim's vehicle, the
   dispatcher knew the exact location of the vehicle, its speed, and the
   force of the impact. Help was on the way almost instantly.
   Single-vehicle rural crashes like Buffim's account for one-third of all
   fatal crashes nationwide. ACN is connecting these crash GPS technology
   plays an important and growing role in victims with emergency care well
   within the "golden the provision of emergency services. hour" that
   often means the difference between life Wellspring of Prosperity
   President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology 9 Improving
   Transportation Efficiency Public and private organizations rely on GPS
   and other technologies to improve transportation safety and efficiency.
   The cascade of benefits includes mil- lions of dollars in savings
   throughout the economy, enhanced customer satisfaction, and improved
   air quality. For example, each of Denver's 800 buses is equipped with a
   GPS-based automatic vehicle location system that reports the location
   of the bus every two minutes. Dispatchers have improved their ability
   to keep buses running on time by viewing bus locations on computer
   screens that are fully integrated with digital city maps. The system is
   credited with increas- ing use of the bus system, relieving traffic
   congestion, and reducing smog. GPS tracking technology at the American
   President Line's Global Gateway South at the Port of Los Angeles
   automatically matches a cargo container's identification number with
   its location in the yard. Back at the terminal, a computer stores the
   GPS location and content data for each container. Using on-board
   navigation, drivers can now negotiate the 6,000-space holding tank and
   drive straight to the proper container the first time, eliminating
   costly mistakes and saving time and money. The system increases the
   overall efficiency of the cargo storage space, an important benefit for
   port facilities with no room for expansion. 10 President's Committee of
   Advisors on Science and Technology Wellspring of Prosperity Chapter 3
   Biomedical Technologies The United States has seen amazing changes in
   biomed- (Computer-Assisted Tomography) scans combine X-rays ical
   technologies over the past 100 years. We have with computer technology
   to create cross-sectional images come from the family doctor's
   signature black bag in the of the patient's body, which are then
   assembled into a first half of the century to the powerful scanning
   equip- three-dimensional picture that displays organs, bones, and ment
   of the modern medical center; from surgical saws tissues in great
   detail. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) to the lasers, endoscopes, and
   angioplasty of today's oper- scanners use magnets and radio waves
   instead of X-rays to ating rooms; from tens of thousands dying in
   influenza generate images that provide an even better view of soft
   epidemics to hundreds of thousands of seniors receiving tissues, such
   as the brain or spinal cord. Ultrasound their annual flu shots; and
   from an average life expectancy images, produced by very-high-frequency
   sound waves, of about 49 years to our present expectancy of 75 years.
   can help doctors visualize a developing fetus, detect tumors Medicine
   saves lives and relieves suffering. It embodies and organ
   abnormalities, and identify women at risk of for many of us the
   greatest achievements of science and developing osteoporosis. Imaging
   technologies have also technology. The rapid progress in medicine has
   come greatly helped in early detection of breast cancer, which from
   life sciences - such as biology and genetics - but claims the lives of
   nearly 42,000 American women each year. also from physics, math, and
   many other fields of science The deeper and smaller we see, the more we
   understand and engineering. how life processes work on their most
   fundamental level. Mathematics and computer science have greatly con-
   Contributions from Physical Sciences tributed to biomedicine through
   information technology. For example, over the past 25 years physicists
   have developed Much of today's imaging technology relies on micro-
   revolutionary imaging technologies that have allowed us processors and
   software. Computers are also making it to see deeper and deeper into
   the materials and processes easier for researchers to collect, analyze,
   and share data of life itself. Doctors are now using non-invasive means
   of in research and in telemedicine, and to model biological looking
   into the human body to diagnose a wide variety of systems to project
   likely outcomes more accurately. It diseases - including cancer,
   multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's would be impossible for scientists to
   sequence the entire disease, stroke, heart failure, and vascular
   disease. CAT human genome without the information processing Wellspring
   of Prosperity President's Committee of Advisors on Science and
   Technology 11 power of supercomputers. And information technologies
   (laser in situ keratomileusis). Not only is laser eye surgery have
   provided essential tools to collect and analyze data effective, but it
   is fast and relatively painless. for epidemiological research that
   helps us understand the distribution of disease and to develop clinical
   and public Contributions from Life Sciences health interventions. Of
   course, the biomedical revolution also sprang from Another development
   from the physical sciences, the fundamental advances in our knowledge
   of the life sci- laser, has made the scalpel unnecessary in many kinds
   ences, particularly knowledge of genetics. Between 1665, of surgery.
   Laser surgery reduces pain and trauma for when Robert Hooke first
   observed cells, and the middle the patient, speeds healing - thereby
   shortening costly of this century, researchers learned that heredity is
   con- hospital stays - and improves the accuracy of certain trolled by
   genes, that genes are located on chromosomes, surgical procedures. Most
   notably, eye surgery has been and that genes are made from
   deoxyribonucleic acid revolutionized by this new technology. Precision
   lasers (DNA). In 1953, Watson and Crick discovered that the have been
   used to halt, and in some cases reverse, diabetic structure of DNA,
   which is common to all life on Earth, retinopathy, a dangerous
   complication of diabetes and is a double helix. That breakthrough
   swiftly cascaded the leading cause of new cases of blindness in adults.
   into new techniques that allow researchers and clinicians Lasers can
   also be used to repair small tears in the to control biological
   processes in very precise ways. retina, preventing retinal detachment,
   and also to provide Today industrial-scale production of insulin for
   diabetics follow-up treatment to patients after cataract surgery. is
   possible because scientists learned how to cut and paste Most recently,
   ophthalmologists have begun to use lasers the human insulin into
   bacteria that can produce large to correct nearsightedness, in a
   procedure called LASIK quantities of the substance inexpensively. Gene
   transfer Hello... Is the Doctor In? Millions of Americans received
   their first introduction As the practice of telemedicine spreads,
   doctors may to telemedicine in the summer of 1999 by following be
   speaking literally when they say, "Call me in the the news story of Dr.
   Jerri Nielsen, 47. Dr. Nielsen, morning and let me know if you feel
   better." who was serving at the U.S. Amundsen-Scott South Pole research
   station, discovered a lump in her breast during a routine
   self-examination. She conducted tele- phone consultations with doctors
   via satellite. On their advice, medical supplies were air-dropped, with
   which Dr. Nielsen treated herself for several months until warmer
   weather permitted her to be airlifted out safely. Less dramatic
   telemedicine occurs daily. Some doctors regularly e-mail medical images
   such as CAT scans to colleagues for review. In remote rural areas,
   telemedicine can mean the difference between life and death. For
   example, a specialist at a North Carolina University Hospital was able
   to diagnose a patient's hairline spinal fracture at a distance, using
   telemedicine video imaging. The patient avoided paralysis because
   treatment was done on-site without physically transporting the patient
   to the specialist, Dr. Jerri Nielsen was a part of the National Science
   who was located a great distance away. Foundation-funded research
   mission in Antarctica. 12 President's Committee of Advisors on Science
   and Technology Wellspring of Prosperity techniques are also used to
   produce antibodies that can A Powerful New Prevention Tool attack
   cancerous tumors directly or deliver lethal doses The vaccine against
   Hemophilus influenza type b of drugs to tumors without damaging
   surrounding tissue. (Hib) meningitis provides the means to completely
   Many of today's vaccines - which save $6 to $16 in med- eliminate this
   disease from the United States within ical costs for every dollar spent
   on production - come the next few years. This turnaround is largely a
   result from genetic engineering. of basic scientific research in
   molecular biology. For Knowledge of genetics will be further extended
   by years this disease struck 15,000 to 20,000 U.S. the Human Genome
   Project, an ambitious international children each year - almost as many
   as polio at effort to determine the complete human DNA sequence, its
   peak. It killed 10 percent and left one-third deaf funded by the
   National Institutes of Health, the Depart- and another one-third
   mentally retarded, making ment of Energy, and the United Kingdom's
   Wellcome it this country's leading cause of acquired mental Trust. A
   map of the human genome published in retardation. Fortunately, two NIH
   scientists made a October 1998 contains over 30,000 genes, almost twice
   discovery about how to make infants' bodies fight as many genes as the
   map published in 1996. The work the disease, a discovery that led to
   the development of the Human Genome Project has led to development of a
   safe and effective vaccine. The vaccine, routinely of tests that
   doctors are already using for screening and administered to babies only
   two months old, is sav- diagnosing disease. ing more than $350 million
   per year in avoided The HGP includes an important new research compo-
   infections, and the incidence of Hib has declined nent that focuses on
   the ethical, legal, and social implica- by 95 percent since 1988. With
   greater use of the tions (ELSI) of genetic research. This program will
   help vaccine across the country, we have the hope of ensure that
   developments in genome science and technol- completely eliminating Hib
   meningitis. ogy take account of values such as privacy and affordable
   health care. The ELSI program also will serve as a model for other
   technological initiatives that raise concerns Healthy People, Healthy
   Economy about established cultural norms even as they offer Just as
   biomedical technologies have made enormous tremendous advantages.
   contributions to Americans' health and well-being in this century, they
   have also helped the economy. The health care industry generates
   roughly $1 trillion in economic activity, high-wage jobs, and trade.
   Another measure of medicine's economic importance is the amount of
   money it saves: for example, improved treatment of acute lym- phocytic
   leukemia has saved the nation more than $1 bil- lion in restored
   lifetime earnings, and lithium treatment for manic-depressive illness
   has saved about $7 billion per year since its introduction in 1970. And
   the list of cost savings continues to grow. The challenges facing
   biomedical sciences in the 21st century are daunting. Emerging
   infectious diseases such as AIDS are a major threat across the globe.
   Antibiotic- resistant strains of infectious agents threaten progress
   Improving the health of all Americans requires a broad spectrum already
   made against diseases such as tuberculosis. In this of basic research
   across all the scientific disciplines, often draw- country, coupling
   prolonged good health with prolonged ing upon tools developed in the
   physical sciences. Here a laser is life span remains an unfinished
   task. Today's killers and used to treat eye disease, before (left) and
   after (right). disablers more often arise as a consequence of things we
   do to ourselves (unhealthy behaviors such as smoking, Wellspring of
   Prosperity President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology
   13 Healthy Hearts-Right From the Start Over the past two decades,
   medical More than 5,000 grade-school stu- In a follow-up study,
   researchers science has managed to reduce dents from nearly 100
   ethnically and found that the students who deaths from stroke by 59
   percent racially diverse elementary schools received the health
   promotion and deaths from heart attack by in California, Louisiana,
   Minnesota, intervention in grades three 53 percent. One major reason
   for and Texas participated in the original through five maintained a
   diet this success has been the develop- CATCH (Child and Adolescent
   Trial significantly lower in total fat and ment of drugs that combat
   hyper- for Cardiovascular Health) Study saturated fat and continued to
   tension. A concentrated research between 1991 and 1994. The chil-
   pursue more vigorous physical effort that combined the efforts of dren
   learned to read labels; to select activity levels than did students in
   the Federal government, pharma- "Go," "Slow," and "Whoa!" foods; and
   the control groups. These results ceutical companies, voluntary health
   to prepare healthy snacks. They ate suggest that schools can be an
   agencies, and private foundations heart-healthy school lunches,
   partici- important place to help young contributed to this feat.
   Although pated in more moderate to vigorous people establish habits
   that may these decreases in deaths are activities in PE classes, and
   engaged help prevent the early onset of encouraging, we still don't
   know their families in entertaining activities cardiovascular disease -
   the enough about how hypertension and games promoting healthy eating
   leading cause of death among works. Preventing this condition and
   exercise behaviors. Americans. is still an elusive goal. In addition to
   modern drug therapy for heart disease patients, medical scientists
   consistently advise careful eating habits, since diet can contribute to
   the risk of cardiovascular disease. The long- established eating habits
   of adults can be extremely resistant to change. But it may be possible
   to teach younger Americans to eat more nutritious foods. A study
   supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute at the
   National Institutes of Health sug- gests that an intensive school and
   family-based intervention program can have lasting effects. Nutrition
   plays a pivotal role in reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease.
   drug and alcohol abuse, poor diets, failure to adhere to A broad
   portfolio of balanced research investments is drug regimens, or
   inadequate physical exercise) or others the key to advancing
   biomedicine. The physical, mathe- (violence and injuries). Growing
   evidence that changing matical, behavioral, and other sciences must
   continue to behavior reduces the risk of disease suggests that our
   advance in tandem with the life sciences if we are to con- efforts to
   improve human health must address the com- tinue to make progress
   against disease. plex interplay between body and mind. 14 President's
   Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology Wellspring of
   Prosperity Chapter 4 Food Technologies Walk into almost any grocery
   store in the United have found that the annual rate of return for
   publicly States, and you will be overwhelmed by the sheer funded
   agricultural research is about 35 percent - for variety of foods. All
   year round, fresh fruits and vegeta- every dollar spent, society gains
   $1.35 in benefits. bles, dairy goods, meat and poultry, baked products,
   Research in the agricultural sciences is continuous and canned goods -
   and, of course, snack foods - line the cumulative. Our modern
   supermarket cornucopia did not aisles. Not only are our supermarket
   shelves well stocked, spring forth overnight or as a result of research
   in any one but we also export enormous amounts of agricultural field of
   science. Rather, over many decades of research, products to the rest of
   the world. Sometimes we take this our farmers and scientists have
   adapted knowledge from abundance for granted, but we can thank science
   and many scientific disciplines to help them grow and deliver
   technology for these blessings. more nutritious and satisfying food to
   our citizens with As the quantity of food available has increased,
   overall less harm to the environment. food prices have steadily
   decreased, so that food in the Remarkable advances in genetics, for
   example, have United States is also more affordable to the consumer.
   steadily pushed agriculture forward. At the beginning According to the
   U.S. Department of Agriculture, the of the 20th century, scientists
   were rediscovering work average U.S. family spent 10.7 percent of its
   income on done some 30 years earlier by the Austrian monk Gregor food
   in 1997, compared to 11.6 percent a decade earlier Mendel, who
   conducted breakthrough scientific experi- and 22 percent 50 years ago.
   ments proving that plant traits are largely inherited. Mendel's
   research allowed scientists early in this century Progress Through
   Research to develop selective breeding techniques, which identify The
   United States has increased its agricultural output agronomically
   desirable genetic traits and integrate those largely through growth in
   productivity, which rests heavily traits into crops and livestock to
   improve them. on our long history of Federal investment in agricultural
   research, development, and infrastructure. Economists Wellspring of
   Prosperity President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology
   15 The Promise of Genomics Further advances in genetics, coupled with
   powerful computer technology, led to a new field of study called
   genomics - the study of the entire DNA complement of an organism. Using
   traditional breeding practices, scientists found the means to move
   desirable genes between sexually compatible species. Today, scientists
   can use genetic engineering to move genes between unrelated species -
   and can modify them to function in specific tissues at specific times.
   In 1999 alone, U.S. farmers planted roughly 25 percent of the nation's
   corn crop using genetically engineered varieties that reduce our
   dependence on toxic chemical Scientists provide farmers with
   information on new pest pesticides. Half of all soybeans planted in the
   United management practices that meet agricultural production, States
   in 1999 will be seeds that have been genetically human health, and
   environmental goals. modified to resist herbicides. New varieties of
   fruits and vegetables are being grown that will ripen more reliably
   Genomics research will be particularly important to the and resist
   virus infections better. emerging U.S. aquaculture industry. Declining
   natural fishery harvests and rapidly growing populations mean that
   aquaculture production will need to increase some Improving Farm
   Productivity 300 percent worldwide by 2025 to meet projected seafood
   Farmers increasingly rely on precision farming - demand. There is great
   potential for rapid gains in growth tools and techniques designed to
   work the land by rate, production efficiency, and health status of
   farm- the square meter instead of the square mile - to raised fish
   through targeted genomic research. improve productivity. Using GPS and
   other tech- In some parts of the world, genetically engineered foods
   nologies, farmers can now achieve an extraordinary have generated
   environmental and human health concerns. degree of accuracy in a range
   of operations includ- In the United States, our food safety regulatory
   agencies ing field mapping, soil sampling, fertilizer and pes- have a
   strong track record of utilizing sound science in ticide application,
   and crop-yield monitoring. their regulatory actions, and that engenders
   public trust. Thayne Wiser's 2,000-acre farm lies in the "rain Citizen
   participation in the policymaking process and shadow" of Washington's
   Cascade Mountains, and ongoing research and outreach programs to
   address receives only six inches of rain a year, mostly in win-
   emerging concerns can help ensure that these new ter. Irrigation is
   critical to the growth of his crops, food technologies serve the best
   interests of consumers. but managing it is a complex process. The soil
   on Wiser's farm is sandy and prone to erosion and A Safer Food Supply
   leaching, and it varies in its ability to hold water There is almost
   universal agreement that the food we and nutrients. To complicate
   matters, the water eat today is safer than that of any previous time.
   When pressure at the hundreds of sprinkler heads that we bite into a
   hamburger or munch on fresh fruits and make up Wiser's irrigation
   system varies with eleva- vegetables, we are not generally putting our
   health at risk. tion. Balancing soil moisture levels with the right
   This is largely a tribute to our nation's food production amount of
   fertilizer and pesticide had been more system, which reduces the
   possibility of exposing us to of an art than a science, but GPS helped
   Wiser harmful pathogens or chemicals, all the way from farm develop a
   precision irrigation system that saves to table. Although our food
   supply is one of the world's water, reduces runoff of pesticides and
   fertilizers safest, we still need to do better. Every year far too many
   from fields, and increases crop yield. people, especially the very
   young and the elderly, become ill or die as a result of contaminated
   food. 16 President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology
   Wellspring of Prosperity DNA: Detective for Food-Borne Pathogens After
   DNA "fingerprinting" was successfully used in 1995 coordination through
   the CDC and states, outbreaks to stop an outbreak of E. coli illness,
   the Centers for and their causes can be figured out in hours rather
   Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) established a than days, and
   control measures can be instituted national network of public health
   laboratories to track more quickly to prevent loss of life and illness.
   foodborne bacteria. PulseNet laboratories in 22 states and two major
   cities can quickly identify and compare specific DNA patterns found in
   bacteria isolated from sick persons or contaminated foods by using the
   same technology that creates DNA fingerprints of human criminals. The
   technique creates a "barcode" pattern, unique to each type of bacteria,
   that can be quickly compared to the barcodes of bacteria in the CDC's
   centralized electronic DNA database. This tool helps us understand how
   foodborne illnesses might be spread- ing from a common source and how
   to stop them. PulseNet now plays a vital role in surveillance and
   investigation of foodborne illnesses that were previously difficult to
   detect. Scientists can spot an outbreak even if its victims are far
   apart geographically. With new fin- A strong research program in food
   safety ensures public health gerprinting tools, electronic
   technologies, and Federal and reduces the prevalence of food-borne
   diseases. Recent advances have helped scientists better under- whether
   its appearance is related to other outbreaks and stand the role of
   pathogens in food contamination, creat- even whether separate incidents
   can be traced to the same ing new opportunities to improve the safety
   of our food source in the food supply and distribution chain. supply.
   There is a new emphasis on preventing contamina- tion throughout the
   entire production process, rather Food Technologies of the Future than
   simply inspecting food at the end of the cycle. Tests New technologies
   may soon be used to engineer functional for pathogenic bacteria that
   once took days to complete foods to be eaten for specific needs.
   Vitamin A-rich pro- now take minutes. Researchers are developing
   biosensors duce will be grown in developing countries, where a defi-
   that will be used to indicate whether a product on the ciency of this
   nutrient causes a half-million children each shelf in the store is
   suitable for consumption. With research year to become permanently
   blind. Future "nutraceuti- efforts such as these tied to strong
   regulatory programs, cals" will likely include staple foods, such as
   potatoes and we can expect to see a significant reduction in cases of
   bananas, genetically engineered to contain vaccines that foodborne
   illnesses over the next decade. will stimulate human antibodies against
   disease. When contaminated foods do cause illness, new tools Advances
   in food technologies promise to continue help us control those threats.
   For example, thanks to today's trends toward healthier food, available
   in a wider breakthroughs in computer networking technology and variety
   of convenient forms, delivered more safely to our genomics, we are now
   able to track the DNA fingerprint table, and produced with less impact
   on the environment. of specific pathogens - the telltale genetic code
   that The farmer will remain at the center of our food produc- proves
   the identity of a contaminating organism. With tion system, but
   increasingly science and technology will that information in hand, we
   can quickly determine give farmers - and consumers - new confidence in
   a bountiful harvest. Wellspring of Prosperity President's Committee of
   Advisors on Science and Technology 17 Biodiversity as the Foundation of
   Agriculture Whoever first said "variety is the spice of life" may have
   been wiser than we thought. Judging from what scientists have
   established over the past 50 years, vari- ety in and among plant and
   animal species is what allows life itself to survive and thrive.
   Biological diver- sity, or biodiversity - all the species on Earth, all
   the varieties within each species, and all the ecosystems that sustain
   them - is now recognized as a critical factor in the natural processes
   at work in agriculture. When we began domesticating plants and animals,
   we wrought perhaps the most far-reaching single change in the ecology
   of the Earth to that time. By patiently perfecting food crops such as
   wheat, rice, and corn and making them the dominant crops around the
   world, we also enabled humans to emerge as the dominant animal species.
   Since then, we have Wheat seeds treated with bacteria like those
   colonized in steadily improved our standard of living despite ever this
   petri dish are nearly immune to wheat take-all, a root- greater
   population densities. Agriculture has permitted destroying fungal
   disease. The sequencing gel in the back- this progress, and agriculture
   relies on biodiversity for ground bears the genetic code for bacterial
   enzymes that its continued success. synthesize natural antibiotics.
   Biodiversity allows higher yields, pest resistance, and improved
   quality of crops. It fosters the develop- climate regions, and
   environmental threats such as ment of crop varieties that adapt to
   different soils, insects and disease. Of the annual increases in crop
   productivity achieved through agricultural research, about half are
   attributable to extractions from wild species in biodiversity's
   "genetic library." Biotechnology now offers us the ability to tap into
   the genetic diversity of all species - not just close relatives - and
   apply desirable traits to completely different species. For this
   reason, preserving natural biodiversity is more crucial than ever
   before. We can- not predict which individual strain - or even which
   particular plant species - might, at some point in the future, offer a
   genetic weapon against a pathogen or pest and thereby save millions of
   acres of food crops from ruin. And although scientists are now able to
   move genes from species to species, only nature can create them. Only
   by maintaining the widest possible diversity among all species and
   their related ecosystems New molecular biological techniques are
   expanding the possi- can we hope to ensure that we will have the
   resources bilities for developing healthier, disease resistant plants.
   to develop new crop varieties when needed to respond to environmental
   challenges. 18 President's Committee of Advisors on Science and
   Technology Wellspring of Prosperity Chapter 5 Environmental
   Technologies During the past 30 years, environmental science has still
   learning painful lessons; for example, the devastating dramatically
   altered our perception of the relation- floods that China suffered in
   1998 were partly a result of ships between human activity and the
   natural environ- extensive deforestation in critical watersheds. ment.
   Back in the 1950s, it would have seemed absurd to suggest that humans
   could in any way alter the global The Goal of Sustainability cycles
   that sustain life on our planet. In particular, the New knowledge has
   led to a new emphasis on developing oceans and the atmosphere - our two
   global commons - sustainable uses of natural resources. The challenge
   is to seemed to be inexhaustible resources whose very vastness enable
   development - including economic growth - made them invulnerable to
   influence by humans. without harming the natural environment.
   Sustainability Today we know this view was wrong. Global population
   requires consideration of complex interactions: maintain- has more than
   tripled over the last century, and human ing biological diversity, safe
   water resources, and air quality; expectations have risen steadily.
   Consumption of natural protecting the population from toxic substances
   and natu- resources by the industrialized world has risen to heights
   ral hazards; reversing stratospheric ozone depletion; and undreamed of
   even a few decades ago. In just a global understanding, mitigating, and
   adapting to climate change. instant, the world has ceased being "wild."
   It is estimated Developing sustainable practices requires a comprehen-
   that humans now consume or divert nearly half of the sive scientific
   understanding of the environment and the net plant productivity of the
   land, use more than half development of innovative and creative new
   technologies of the available fresh water, and significantly modify the
   to help solve those problems. There is no better example composition of
   the atmosphere. of this process than the story of chlorofluorocarbons
   Environmental science has given us a better understand- (CFCs). As
   early as the 1960s, scientists were beginning to ing of the complexity
   of the Earth's environment and its understand that these industrial
   chemicals - widely used sensitivity to stresses caused by a growing
   human popula- because of their many desirable chemical properties -
   tion. It has also revealed much about human dependence pose a threat to
   the thin layer of stratospheric ozone that on the healthy functioning
   of those ecosystems for food, protects life on Earth from dangerous
   levels of cancer- timber, clean water, medicine, and recreation. But we
   are causing ultraviolet radiation from the sun. As this threat
   Wellspring of Prosperity President's Committee of Advisors on Science
   and Technology 19 was more fully documented, scientists and engineers
   such as coal-fired boilers, were readily identified. But from the
   government and the private sector helped solve "smog" was more
   difficult. Atmospheric scientists eventually the problem by developing
   safer, less ozone-destructive determined that sunlight shining on
   exhaust from tail- substitutes for CFCs. Thanks to those efforts, the
   world pipes and smokestacks causes smog. Knowledge of the was able to
   sharply reduce CFC use years earlier than cause led environmental
   engineers to solutions such as originally thought possible. Today,
   those efforts are paying catalytic converters for automobiles and
   scrubbers for off: atmospheric measurements show that levels of CFCs
   industrial smokestacks. For example, today's cars get in the
   stratosphere are already leveling off. twice the average gas mileage of
   cars built in 1970, and they burn their gasoline 90 percent more
   cleanly. Since Recent Progress in Cleaning Up 1970, air pollution has
   declined by 31 percent, while It is difficult today to imagine the
   levels of air pollution U.S. population increased by 31 percent, GDP
   increased that were commonly accepted in the 1940s and 1950s as by 114
   percent, and vehicle miles traveled increased the inevitable price of
   industrial progress. After a particu- by 127 percent. larly acute
   episode of air pollution in London in 1952 Just as science and
   technology led the way in improving killed some 4,000 people,
   scientists went to work to under- air quality, they have also given us
   new understanding, stand the sources of air pollution. Some of the
   sources, and new tools, in the effort to clean up our water. The East
   Side, West Side, All Around the Watershed New York City has had a long
   tradi- of the cost of a filtration plant - locations and other
   ecosystems to tion of supplying clean municipal about $1 billion. The
   city chose the benefit municipalities and habitats water. New York's
   water, which orig- less costly alternative, raising an envi- throughout
   the nation. inates in the Catskill Mountains, ronmental bond issue in
   1997. It is was once bottled and sold through- now using these funds to
   purchase out the Northeast. In recent years, and halt development on
   land in sewage and agricultural runoff the watershed, to compensate
   have overwhelmed the Catskills' landowners for restrictions on pri-
   natural ecological purification sys- vate development, and to subsidize
   tem, and water quality dropped the improvement of septic systems. below
   EPA standards. This prompt- In this case, a financial mecha- ed New
   York City's administration nism has helped to recapture to investigate
   the cost of replacing some of the economic and public the natural
   system with an artificial health benefits of a natural capital
   filtration plant. The estimated asset, the Catskills watershed. The
   price tag for this installation was full economic and ecological value
   $6 to 8 billion in capital costs, plus is much greater, however, since
   annual operating costs of $300 mil- conserving the Catskills ecosystem
   lion - a high price for a commod- for water purification will also pro-
   Advances in environmental science ity that was once virtually free.
   tect its other benefits, including and technology hold tremendous prom-
   Further investigation showed that tourism and recreation, flood ise for
   creation of a sustainable future, the cost of restoring the integrity
   of control, and wildlife and fisheries. a future where environmental
   health, the watershed's natural purification Such financial mechanisms
   can economic prosperity, and quality of life processes would be a small
   fraction be applied in other geographic are mutually reinforcing. 20
   President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology Wellspring
   of Prosperity New Markets for Energy Technologies Currently, fossil
   fuels provide more fact, over the next two decades, tionary, energy
   technologies that than 75 percent of the world ener- more than half of
   global energy will allow us to continue improving gy supply. However,
   researchers growth will be in developing and the quality of human life
   while expect the next century to bring reforming economies. Between
   reducing our dependence on fossil strong new growth in development now
   and 2050, investments in fuels and their associated environ- of
   renewable energy technologies - developing countries in new energy
   mental dangers. This market also such as wind power, photovoltaic
   technologies are projected to reach represents a remarkable opportuni-
   cells, and biomass - that are a level between $15 trillion and ty for
   American businesses, if they friendlier to the environment. Over $25
   trillion. Additional investments are ready with the technologies that
   the longer term, these "renewables" in energy efficiency are expected
   to emerging economies demand. will be economically competitive be on a
   similar scale as these coun- Federal funding of research to fill with
   fossil-fuel technologies. tries create their buildings, indus- the gaps
   in private-sector investment Developing countries around the try, and
   transport infrastructures. can achieve significant benefits for world
   are expected to play a partic- This dynamic new global market the
   United States. ularly prominent role in the rise of for energy
   technologies will likely renewable energy technologies. In stimulate
   new, perhaps even revolu- United States has 3.5 million miles of
   rivers, 41 million Preventing Future Harm acres of lakes, 277 million
   acres of wetlands, and 34,400 The greater scientific understanding of
   the environment square miles of estuaries. During the past 25 years, we
   has enabled us to shift from the initial environmental have seen
   substantial improvements in water quality for focus of cleaning up
   major "point sources" of pollution to many types of pollutants in the
   nation's aquatic ecosys- a new generation of environmental tools that
   emphasizes tems, and anticipated advances in technology will help us
   pollution prevention. Sustainability requires that future address
   remaining challenges. Among the issues needing economic growth be
   achieved without unacceptable levels attention are the declines in
   populations of aquatic species of pollution or unsustainable rates of
   resource use. And that are not only environmentally essential but also
   eco- science is providing the analytic tools for policymakers nomically
   vital, and "non-point" sources of pollution - and decisionmakers to
   understand - in advance - the that is, pollution that arises from wide
   areas - such as environmental consequences of alternative management
   nitrogen and phosphorus runoff from agricultural fields strategies. The
   technologies that help us observe, com- or oil and sediment from urban
   development sites. pute, and communicate will increasingly allow us to
   antici- Standards that ensure that the nation's public water sup- pate
   environmental issues in a much more timely fashion. plies remain safe
   for human consumption have helped For example, as we further refine
   computer modeling, we prevent 200,000 to 470,000 cases of
   gastrointestinal illnesses will be better able to simulate interactions
   among biologi- each year. The Environmental Protection Agency is also
   cal, chemical, and physical forces and phenomena to pre- working with
   the states and other stakeholders to develop dict a range of outcomes,
   providing better documentation long-term protection programs, an effort
   that has led to for policy decisions. implementation of special
   protection programs in about Continuing a comprehensive program of
   environmental 4,000 communities across the country. research and
   development will improve our ability to pre- Surveys of the nation's
   largest rivers show that the num- vent problems in the future. Federal
   funding for environ- ber of rivers, lakes, and estuaries safe enough
   for fishing mental science provides the technical basis for sound envi-
   and swimming has increased by 20 percent. Clean water ronmental
   policies that enable us to continue to create is essential not only for
   health reasons, but also for direct jobs and expand our economy without
   sacrificing human economic benefit from fishing, tourism, and other
   water- health or healthy ecosystems on which human prosperity based
   commercial activities. ultimately depends. Wellspring of Prosperity
   President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology 21
   Partnerships for a Cleaner Environment Partnerships among government,
   industry, and These programs serve as models for the U.S. construc-
   educational institutions can generate new technologies tion and housing
   industry because of their new that will grow our economy and help our
   environment approaches to land planning and design and their at the
   same time. The Federal government has taken incorporation of highly
   innovative technologies. a leadership role in initiating partnerships
   designed In the Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles to fulfill
   all of these objectives. (PNGV), different sectors are combining forces
   to The Partnership for Advancing Technologies in unlock new
   technologies that will develop a new Housing (PATH), for example, links
   key agencies in class of vehicles with a fuel efficiency of up to 80
   miles the Federal government with leaders from the home per gallon and
   maintain performance, safety, and cost building, product manufacturing,
   insurance, financial comparable to today's cars. PNGV joins seven
   Federal and regulatory communities in a unique partnership agencies and
   19 Federal laboratories with the U.S. focused on technological
   innovation in the American Council for Automotive Research (USCAR),
   which housing industry. The goals of the partnership include represents
   Daimler-Chrysler, Ford, and General Motors. cutting the environmental
   impact and energy use of The PNGV partnership ultimately will help
   create new new housing by 50 percent or more. The five PATH jobs,
   improve global competitiveness, reduce U.S. National Pilot projects are
   Village Green and Playa dependence on foreign oil, and decrease
   greenhouse Vista, in Los Angeles; Civano, in Tucson; Stapleton gas
   emissions. Airport, in Denver; and Summerset, in Pittsburgh. 22
   President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology Wellspring
   of Prosperity Chapter 6 Manufacturing Technologies Manufacturing
   undergirds our nation's economy. Influence of Information Technologies
   Manufacturing firms consistently generate about Looking at just one of
   these contributing disciplines, we 20 percent of GDP and employ about
   16 percent of the can see that information technology has been a
   powerful total workforce, or about 21 million people. Continual driver
   of innovation in manufacturing. Design and manu- innovations in
   manufacturing technologies sustain the facture of new products requires
   processing of huge vital economic role of manufacturing industries in
   the amounts of information to ensure quality, satisfy customer U.S.
   economy. needs, and meet environmental standards. Increasingly, Three
   decades ago, U.S. manufacturing was concen- manufacturers are using
   information technology for trated in large factories using large
   amounts of raw modeling and simulation to construct "virtual" tools and
   materials to produce machinery, automotive vehicles, factories,
   allowing factory design to proceed in parallel and other large
   products. Labor was skilled but relatively with product design.
   Similarly, computer networking expensive to the manufacturer, who often
   had to tread helps manufacturers integrate all aspects of their opera-
   a fine line between cost and quality concerns. tions, from design and
   processing to the assembly line, Today's manufacturing model is a much
   smaller factory shipping, and marketing. These applications of informa-
   producing smaller consumer goods or precision parts tion technology
   reduce the time and cost of developing for later assembly in larger
   products. Miniaturization, and testing new products and allow them to
   reach their new materials, and improved processes have helped markets
   faster and more efficiently. manufacturers make great strides in
   quality, efficiency, Manufacturers are increasingly incorporating
   computers and productivity. This rapid rate of progress is fueled and
   other forms of technology into the workplace, both by research in
   manufacturing systems, as well as innova- on the factory floor and on
   the office desktop. This has tions in a range of other disciplines -
   including materi- increased productivity, which in turn, has boosted
   worker als science, robotics, chemistry, information technolo-
   compensation. Since the fourth quarter of 1995, nonfarm gies,
   management, and statistics. business productivity growth has averaged
   2.1 percent. Nowadays it is difficult to identify a "low-tech"
   manufacturer: 84 percent of manufacturers use computer-aided design
   Wellspring of Prosperity President's Committee of Advisors on Science
   and Technology 23 Pollution Prevention Pays A program at 3M to
   encourage innovation among employees has not only helped the company
   improve speed and efficiency, but has also helped create a cleaner
   environment and generate new revenues. The Pollution Prevention Pays
   (3P) program at 3M aims to prevent waste at its source - in products
   and manu- facturing processes - rather than treating or dispos- ing of
   it after it has been created. Although the idea itself was not new when
   3P began in 1975, no one had ever tried to apply pollution prevention
   on a company- wide basis and document the results. Since 1975, 3P has
   kept 771,000 tons of pollutants out of the environment and saved $810
   million. Before the 3P program, a resin spray booth in one plant had
   annually produced about 500,000 pounds of over-spray, requiring special
   incineration disposal. The company installed new equipment to eliminate
   excessive over-spray. It also implemented a new design that reduced the
   amount of resin used. In this case, an equipment investment of $45,000
   saved more than $125,000 a year. Another 3M plant developed a new
   product from the waste stream of an existing product at the plant. The
   new product is used to contain and absorb haz- ardous waste spills,
   providing revenue, cutting landfill costs, and reducing waste. Other 3P
   projects world- The Federal investment in environmental research is
   helping wide have ranged from improved control of coating to encourage
   American corporations to develop manufactur- weight and wastewater
   recycling, to a variety of com- ing processes to minimize pollution.
   bustion control and heat-recovery processes. (CAD); 63 percent have
   incorporated local area networks In addition, increasing productivity
   and capturing a (LANs) into their operations; and 62 percent have
   adopted world market depend on "agility" in manufacturing -
   "just-in-time" inventory techniques. setting up manufacturing
   enterprises to adapt products Before a company starts full-scale
   manufacturing of a rapidly to changing marketing opportunities in the
   most product, it builds prototypes with the same specifications
   efficient way. Companies are finding ways to perfect "just- as those of
   the planned product. The prototypes are used in-time" procedures in
   assembly, inventory, and delivery, for testing and verification of the
   design and error-proof- so that resources - including human effort -
   are applied ing manufacturing assembly. Older methods for construct-
   when they are needed, but not until then. This approach ing individual
   prototypes were expensive and time-con- requires rapid flow and
   application of information rough- suming, adding substantially to the
   time between product out the supply chain. The end result is
   substantial increas- concept and delivery. Today, rapid prototyping
   reduces es in productivity, as reflected in savings of money and
   prototype development time from months to days, greatly manpower
   throughout the manufacturing sector. shortening the time to market of
   new products. continued on page 28 24 President's Committee of Advisors
   on Science and Technology Wellspring of Prosperity Virtual
   Manufacturing Designing, testing, and developing large manufac- 777 is
   the first airplane to be completely designed tured products requires
   many human and material and pre-assembled `virtually' - that is, by
   computer. resources. Information technologies help integrate
   Performance and strength of the plane were analyzed computer design
   tools with models and simulations of and tested through complex
   computer models. Of its manufacturing processes for more efficient
   design, three million parts, more than 100,000 are unique; analysis,
   and testing of products. These `virtual' tools they were
   precision-engineered from computer mod- greatly reduce the investment
   required for product els. The parts were manufactured separately at
   sites prototyping, testing, and validation. The story of the spread
   around the world, then shipped to a central development and production
   of the Boeing 777 is a plant, where they were assembled. They fit
   together vivid illustration of the adoption of virtual manufac-
   perfectly on the first attempt! The cost savings to turing and the
   efficiencies that technology can create. Boeing were tremendous, and
   the company won The latest relative in Boeing's family of jetliners,
   the multiple manufacturing and innovation awards. Our ability to
   harness the power and promise of leading-edge advances in technology
   will determine in large measure our national prosperity, security, and
   global influence, and with them the standard of living and quality of
   life of our people. Wellspring of Prosperity President's Committee of
   Advisors on Science and Technology 25 Customizing Mass Production U.S
