http://www.eren.nrel.gov/EE/transportation.html

   Skip Header Navigation and Go to Transportation Search and Resources

   Transportation
   Navigation

   _________________
   Search

   Search   Search Options
   Skip Transportation Organizations and Resources Navigational Links
   Transportation Organizations and Resources
   U.S. Department of Energy Resources
   U.S. Federal Government Resources
   U.S. State and Local Resources
   U.S. Trade and Nonprofit Resources
   U.S. Universities and Research Institutes
   International Organizations
   Discussion Groups
   Newsletters and Magazines
   Products and Services

   Office of Transportation Technologies
   Transportation Topics

   Transportation accounts for 65% of U.S. oil consumption and is the
   predominant source of air pollution. New transportation technologies
   are intended to improve the efficiency and emissions of vehicles using
   petroleum-based fuels, provide cleaner-burning alternative fuels, and
   reduce the quantity of miles individual vehicles travel on our roads
   and highways.

   More basic information about transportation energy efficiency is also
   available.

   Technologies and Approaches
   Improved Petroleum-based Fuels
   Improved gasoline and diesel fuel will improve performance and reduce
   emissions.

   Improved Petroleum-based Vehicles
   New technologies such as hybrid electric vehicles and fuel cells may
   double or triple the efficiency of current vehicles.

   Alternative Fuels
   Non-petroleum or "alternative" fuels such as natural gas and ethanol
   can be used instead of gasoline in vehicles. Although not usually
   thought of as a "fuel," electricity can provide an alternative to
   gasoline when used in electric vehicles.

   Alternative Fuel Vehicles
   Alternative fuel vehicles use alternative fuels instead of gasoline or
   diesel fuel.

   Components
   Research on advanced engines, drives, and other components will enable
   progress in other areas.

   Materials
   Materials being examined for alternative and advanced vehicles include
   plastics, composites, lightweight metals, ceramics, and catalysts.
   Special applications include engines, natural gas storage tanks, and
   catalytic converters.

   Issues
   Reducing Vehicle Miles Traveled
   A variety of approaches can be employed to slow the growth of vehicles
   on the road and the miles they travel. Mass transit, telecommuting, and
   "smart transportation" are just a few of the approaches that could
   contribute to a sustainable transportation future.

   Air Emissions and Standards
   The transportation sector is currently the dominant source of air
   pollution in the United States. Emissions standards and fuel economy
   standards work together to address this issue. Fuel economy standards
   also help to reduce U.S. petroleum consumption.

   Petroleum Supply and Demand
   Estimates of worldwide petroleum resources vary substantially, but many
   reports suggest that resources will be readily accessible for about the
   next 50 years. Demand for petroleum continues to rise dramatically
   around the world, fueled by economic development and growth.

   Alternative Fuel Infrastructure
   The existing gasoline and diesel infrastructure represents hundreds of
   billions of dollars of investment over many years. To be widely used,
   alternative fuels may require similar investments in fuel
   infrastructure. Thus far, most attention has been focused on the
   development of ethanol, methanol, natural gas, propane, and hydrogen
   infrastructures.

   Regulations, Laws, and Incentives
   There are various rules and regulations that require certain fleet
   types to purchase and operate alternative fuel vehicles. In addition,
   there are federal and state incentives available for fleets and private
   individuals to help offset any incremental cost of purchasing these
   vehicles. Existing tax incentives can help individuals who buy
   alternative fuel vehicles.

                    Skip Footer Navigation to End of Page

   Ask an Energy Expert  |   Search  |   Webmaster  |   Security & Privacy
                           Notices  |   EREN Home
