http://www.ndpo.gov/blueprint.pdf

   BLUEPRINT FOR THE NATIONAL DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS OFFICE 1 BLUEPRINT FOR
   THE NATIONAL DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS OFFICE TABLE OF CONTENTS
   INTRODUCTION 3 Domestic Preparedness Assistance from the Federal
   Government 4 Responding to Stakeholder Concerns 4 Section I 5 Executive
   Summary 5 The Need for a Single Coordinating Office for Federal
   Domestic Preparedness 5 A Vision for Working with First Responders to
   Enhance Domestic Preparedness 7 Overview of NDPO Functional Areas 7
   Management Plan 10 Interagency Participation 11 Section II 13 Roles and
   Missions of Agency Participants 13 Department of Energy 14
   Environmental Protection Agency 15 Department of Health and Human
   Services 16 Federal Emergency Management Agency 17 Department of
   Defense 18 Department of Justice 19 Section III 21 ENHANCING FEDERAL
   DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS EFFORTS 21 FUNCTIONAL AREAS OF THE NDPO 21
   Planning 21 Training 22 Exercises 24 Equipment/Research & Development
   26 Information Sharing 27 Health and Medical Services 30 CONSULTING
   WITH THE STATES ON A NATIONAL STRATEGY FOR DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS 32 A
   National Strategy -- Building a Two-Way Street 32 Outreach to
   Communities 33 Appendices 34 Acronyms 35 2 Introduction Success in
   preventing, preparing for and responding to a terrorist attack in the
   United States involving conventional or non-conventional weapons of
   mass destruction (WMD) will depend upon the establishment and
   maintenance of a coordinated crisis and consequence management
   infrastructure. Emergency responders who arrive first on the scene, as
   well as those in the medical profession who provide interim treatment,
   must be adequately trained, equipped, and exercised to ensure their
   ability to effectively respond and conduct relief and recovery
   operations as part of a multi-agency team. The federal agencies
   recognize that the response to bioterrorism will be qualitatively
   different from a chemical event and will primarily involve the public
   health and medical communities. Events within the United States and
   against Americans abroad have demonstrated the need to enhance the
   nation's domestic preparedness activities. The United States Congress
   and the President have recognized the need for federal programs to
   assist state and local jurisdictions in preparing for the threat of WMD
   terrorism. In 1996, the Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act
   was passed directing the Department of Defense (DoD) to enhance
   domestic preparedness for responding to and managing the consequences
   of a terrorist attack using WMD. Under this Act, DoD was directed to
   provide training, exercises and expert advice to emergency response
   personnel, and to provide emergency response training equipment to
   local jurisdictions on a loan basis. In implementing its domestic
   preparedness program, DoD, in coordination with its interagency
   partners, selected 120 of the nation's largest cities based upon census
   population figures, special events, and a balanced distribution
   throughout the nation. The Act also authorized the Department of Health
   and Human Services (HHS) to develop Metropolitan Medical Response
   Systems (MMRS) in local jurisdictions across the country. In 1996,
   Congress also passed the Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty
   Act, which authorized the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
   and the Department of Justice's Office of Justice Programs (OJP) to
   fund and develop an emergency response to terrorism training program
   for fire, emergency medical service, and public safety personnel.
   Furthermore, the 1998 Commerce, Justice, and State Appropriations Act
   provided for the creation of an equipment acquisition grant program, as
   well as training centers for emergency responders at Fort McClellan,
   Alabama and the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology. The
   equipment acquisition grant program, administered by OJP, offers grants
   to metropolitan jurisdictions for the purchase of operational
   equipment. The OJP grant and training programs target the Nation's 120
   largest metropolitan jurisdictions, a separate list which partially
   overlaps the list of 120 cities used by DoD. The FY1999 Departments of
   Labor, Health and Human Services and Education appropriation authorized
   funding for HHS to renovate and modernize the Nobel Army Hospital
   located at Fort McClellan for the purpose of providing training in the
   health response to bioterrorism. In addition to these programs, a
   multitude of other federal departments and agencies also conduct
   training programs, or possess relevant expertise and resources for
   enhancing the capabilities 3 of state and local authorities to respond
   to acts of WMD terrorism. However, federal efforts to date in this
   regard have been fragmented. A single office within the Federal
   government is needed to coordinate domestic preparedness programs.
   Domestic Preparedness Assistance from the Federal Government In
   response to calls from members of the emergency responder community
   across the country, the Attorney General proposed the establishment of
   a National Domestic Preparedness Office (NDPO), to coordinate and serve
   as an information clearinghouse for federal programs supporting state
   and local emergency responder communities in the area of WMD-related
   domestic preparedness planning, training, exercises, and equipment
   research and development. Forming a partnership between the Federal
   Government and the nation's emergency responder community (of state,
   local and tribal governments) is the goal of the NDPO. Fostering
   cooperation among federal, state and local agencies is consistent with
   the Five-Year Interagency Counter-terrorism and Technology Crime Plan
   (The Five-Year Plan), which sets challenging milestones for a newly
   established NDPO. In August 1998, during preparations for the Five-Year
   Plan, the Attorney General directed the Department of Justice
   (DOJ)/Office of Justice Programs to host a meeting of the nation's
   "stakeholders" of the emergency response community. Collectively, the
   200 stakeholders represented all of the response disciplines, including
   fire services, hazardous materials (HAZMAT), law enforcement, emergency
   management, and health and safety communities, as well as national
   representatives of various professional associations and organizations.
   The stakeholders reported their recommendations to the Attorney General
   at the culmination of a two-day forum. Responding to Stakeholder
   Concerns The principal recommendation that emerged from the meeting of
   the stakeholders was for the establishment of a single federal
   coordinating office for the many federal programs providing domestic
   preparedness assistance to state and local jurisdictions. The NDPO
   responds to that recommendation. Other recommendations cited by the
   stakeholders encompass six broad issue areas requiring federal
   coordination and assistance. These areas are: Planning; Training;
   Exercises; Equipment Research and Development; Information Sharing; and
   Public Health and Medical Services. The stakeholders cited the need for
   federal coordination and assistance in all these areas. They also
   recommended the creation of a state and local Advisory Group to provide
   a mechanism for regular input and guidance from the emergency responder
   community into federal domestic preparedness programs. In October 1998,
   after consultation with the National Security Council (NSC), the
   Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and others, the Attorney General
   directed the FBI to lead an interagency coordination initiative now
   known as the NDPO. Federal participants in the NDPO will include: HHS,
   DoD, Department of Energy (DOE), the Environmental Protection Agency
   (EPA), the DOJ/Office of Justice Programs, and FEMA. Other 4 agencies,
   such as the U.S. Coast Guard, Veteran's Administration, and the Nuclear
   Regulatory Commission, have expressed interest in participating. The
   principal federal agencies with responsibilities and resources for
   domestic preparedness have pledged their support for the establishment
   of the NDPO to serve as a single office for coordinating federal
   domestic preparedness programs. The NDPO will address stakeholders'
   concerns by providing a single point of contact among federal programs,
   reducing duplication, and improving the quality of federal support
   provided to the emergency response and health care community. Section I
   Executive Summary In the first minutes following a terrorist incident
   involving WMD, the critical response will come from the state and local
   first responder communities. These first minutes can mean the
   difference between life and death. As noted at the outset, the federal
   agencies recognize that the response to bioterrorism will be
   qualitatively different from a chemical event and will first and
   foremost involve the public health and medical communities. While
   certain jurisdictions are currently well trained and equipped to
   respond to a WMD incident, others are not. The nation's capability to
   respond to a WMD act of terrorism will depend on the smallest as well
   as the largest cities possessing essential plans, training and
   equipment. An effective response will require coordinated planning,
   training, equipping and exercising on the part of all agencies
   involved, federal, state, and local. This document puts forth a
   "blueprint" for the NDPO -- a single coordinating office and
   information clearinghouse for federal assistance programs -- to better
   prepare state and local officials to respond to WMD acts of terrorism
   within the United States. By providing a venue for a full and sustained
   partnership of the federal agencies responsible for WMD crisis and
   consequence management, and their state and local emergency management,
   public health and medical counterparts, the NDPO will seek to promote
   the highest level of national domestic preparedness, using existing
   mechanisms among state, local and federal agencies. The Need for a
   Single Coordinating Office and Information Clearinghouse for Federal
   Domestic Preparedness Programs The NDPO will be an interagency effort
   to enhance coordination among federal programs offering terrorism
   preparedness assistance to states and local communities. As such, it is
   intended to serve as the central coordinating office and information
   clearinghouse for federal assistance programs, with the goal of
   integrating and streamlining government assistance. As an information
   clearinghouse, the NDPO will provide details on federal assistance
   programs to state and local response agencies. The NDPO is not intended
   to be the creation of a new federal bureaucracy or to 5 usurp the
   assistance programs under the management of other agencies, but rather
   to be a "one-stop shop" for state and local responders seeking
   information regarding federal domestic preparedness assistance and as a
   forum for federal domestic preparedness programs to coordinate policy
   affecting those programs. The NDPO will be organized into six program
   areas to coordinate and share information related to federal domestic
   preparedness programs and to provide state and local first responders
   with a single, central point of contact for information about these
   programs. These program areas will provide an interagency forum in each
   area for coordination of federal policy and program assistance to state
   and local emergency responders. For instance, federal programs
   providing training will be assessed in this forum in order to eliminate
   duplication and to ensure that training programs adhere to minimum
   national standards. The NDPO will be staffed by federal, state and
   local program coordinators and experts, most of whom are already
   engaged on a full- or part-time basis in domestic preparedness
   activities. In the coordination of federal programs, it is the NDPO's
   objective to ensure proper representation of experts from all
   disciplines responsible for domestic preparedness and emergency
   response. However, NDPO staff will not supplant the functions that are
   the responsibilities of its constituent departments and agencies, but
   rather serve as a forum to coordinate these programs. The NDPO will not
   serve, nor is it intended to serve, as an operational entity. Response
   activities will remain with the various departments and agencies whose
   functions and responsibilities in a WMD event are described in the
   Federal Response Plan Terrorism Annex. 6 A Vision for Working with
   First Responders to Enhance Domestic Preparedness Based on the August
   1998 Stakeholder Conference and further consultation with the emergency
   response community and Congress, it is apparent that there is a need
   for more involvement at the state level. The goal of the NDPO is to
   build and strengthen the relationships between federal, state and local
   communities and their stakeholders to improve this country's ability to
   respond to a WMD incident. The cornerstone of this effort will be the
   development of a comprehensive process for developing
   terrorism-specific response plans and support strategies for training,
   exercising and equipping tailored to the needs of individual states and
   their communities. Therefore, the Attorney General will ask the
   Governors to designate a single point of contact within the states and
   territories who will have direct contact with the NDPO and who can
   serve as a state- level link to the federal domestic preparedness
   efforts. State participation is essential to a coordinated effort, and
   involvement at the state level will be the key to the development of
   comprehensive state plans. These points of contact are not intended to
   replace local networks so important to domestic preparedness, such as
   the medical surveillance networks, but rather are an important way to
   address issues throughout the state. The interaction with emergency
   responder/domestic preparedness personnel throughout the country will
   provide opportunities for the NDPO to learn first hand the concerns as
   well as the capabilities of state and local emergency responders. This
   knowledge and direct access to the planning processes of communities
   throughout the country will allow the NDPO to adjust as necessary the
   focus of all six of its program areas (planning; exercise; training;
   equipment/research and development; health and medical; and information
   sharing) in response to the changing needs of this country's emergency
   responder/domestic preparedness communities, particularly as the NDPO
   works to ensure that the states develop domestic response plans that
   are consistent with a national strategy. Overview of NDPO Functional
   Areas Planning In an effort to ensure an organized and integrated
   capability for a timely, efficient response by federal, state and local
   agencies to a terrorist threat or act, the NDPO will assist communities
   by bringing appropriate representatives of federal response agencies to
   state and local planning efforts. To ensure an interagency approach to
   planning, the NDPO will coordinate planning assistance from relevant
   federal agencies and serve as a liaison between the requesting state or
   local agency and the federal entities providing planning support. 7
   Training The NDPO will provide a forum to assess training needs at all
   levels and identify solutions as part of a national training strategy.
   The NDPO will act as a clearinghouse for information about federal WMD
   training, including the establishment and maintenance of a training
   catalog for first responders. The NDPO will not have "veto power" over
   any agency's programs, but rather, NDPO will work to avoid duplication
   among the federal programs by providing a forum to coordinate federal
   efforts. Exercises The NDPO will provide WMD exercise recommendations,
   assistance and technical support to federal, state or local agencies
   planning efforts. The NDPO, in its coordinating role, will facilitate
   the sharing of lessons learned through maintenance of databases of
   lessons learned, "after-action reports" and analyses. With the
   participation of all federal agencies involved in conducting WMD
   exercises, the NDPO will be able to facilitate the planning and
   coordination of WMD exercises between federal, state and local
   officials. Equipment/Research & Development The NDPO will coordinate
   federal efforts to provide the emergency response community with
   equipment necessary to prepare for, and respond to, a WMD terrorist
   incident. To this end, NDPO will help establish and maintain a
   Standardized Equipment List (SEL) to guide the responder community in
   identifying the types and models of equipment available which meet
   agreed upon standards of performance and reliability. The NDPO will
   facilitate the dissemination of information about new and developing
   technologies through the member agencies of the NDPO. Existing
   technology review panels, such as the Interagency Board (IAB,
   co-chaired by FBI and DoD), will be leveraged to ensure
   interoperability, best performance, and reliability of equipment
   produced for the response communities. Information Sharing and Outreach
   The NDPO will serve as a clearinghouse for information that relates to
   emergency responders (e.g., trend information, information that raises
   awareness of threats, guides, publications, and basic facts about WMD
   and WMD responses/incidents). The NDPO will provide a conduit for
   information dissemination to the emergency response community through
   several mechanisms, such as special bulletins and monthly newsletters,
   for basic information on equipment, training, research and development
   (R&D), and information about actual responses to improve awareness. 8
   The entry point into the state for information sharing will be the
   single point of contact appointed by the Governor. This person will
   serve as the information hub at the state level. Unclassified
   information will be provided to state and local responders through a
   number of media, including bulletins, newsletters, websites and
   community relations projects. Public Health & Medical Services Public
   Health and Medical Services affect all program areas of the NDPO. The
   NDPO will facilitate interagency efforts to support HHS in developing
   Metropolitan Medical Response Systems, pharmaceutical stockpiles, the
   establishment and maintenance of an effective nationwide public health
   surveillance system to improve identification of terrorist related and
   infectious diseases, and the integration of health care planning into
   WMD response plans. Although a benefit of the surveillance program will
   be its impact upon naturally occurring infectious diseases, the intent
   of the program is to identify terrorist-induced diseases. The
   participation of the public health and medical community personnel in
   the NDPO will be critical to its effectiveness as a clearinghouse for
   state and local authorities for current information on public health
   and medical programs. Program Staffing When staffed, NDPO will be
   composed of experts from the federal, state and local communities in
   the six basic functional areas referred to above. The representatives
   from the state and local communities who will be integrated into the
   NDPO staff will possess knowledge and experience in the areas of fire
   and rescue, HAZMAT, law enforcement, bomb squad, emergency medical
   services, public health, emergency medicine, nursing, emergency
   managers, and other similar areas. The mix of experts from the federal,
   state and local communities will enable the NDPO to form a professional
   team. The NDPO will also gain valuable input from stakeholders through
   conferences and focus groups specific to the responder needs within any
   of the established program areas. To achieve its mission as a single
   coordinating office and one-stop shop, NDPO will require a range of
   agency representatives, including FBI, HHS, DoD, FEMA, and others. In
   consultation with interagency partners, NDPO hopes to acquire a full
   complement of agency expertise. State and local participation in the
   NDPO is a significant mission success factor. As such, personnel
   estimates are based upon the goal of ensuring that state and local
   experts are well- represented in each of the program areas. Therefore,
   the NDPO hopes to fill approximately one-third of its program staff, or
   20 positions with state and local representatives, with approximately
   three state and local personnel per functional area. 9 Management Plan
   The Attorney General will provide oversight of NDPO activities as chair
   of the Domestic Preparedness Leadership Group (DPLG), a cabinet level
   group that will be a forum for strategic guidance and the resolution of
   policy issues. The principal task of this group will be to contribute
   to the development of and updates to the national strategy for domestic
   preparedness, and to provide policy and program oversight to NDPO
   activities. A State and Local Advisory Group, drawn from constituencies
   representing, but not limited to, fire service, emergency medical
   services, public health, nursing, emergency medicine, law enforcement,
   emergency management, and state and local government, will provide
   critical input from stakeholders to the NDPO on strategy development
   and implementation. Domestic Preparedness Leadership Group The Attorney
   General will chair the DPLG, which will include the Secretaries of
   Defense, Energy, and HHS, the Directors of the FEMA and the FBI, the
   Administrator of the EPA, and the National Coordinator for Security,
   Infrastructure Protection and Counterterrorism of the NSC. The DPLG
   will resolve policy issues that may arise and provide strategic
   guidance consistent with each agency's vision statement. The DPLG will
   be regularly apprised of the activities of the NDPO and may be convened
   as appropriate for formal review or high-level policy resolution.
   Assistance to State and Local Authorities Under PDD-62, the Weapons of
   Mass Destruction Group (WMDP) provides a conduit for Executive Branch
   policy and direction, in coordination with the DPLG. Below the
   principals' level, the Assistance to State and Local Authorities (ASLA)
   subgroup of the WMDP will foster interagency coordination of federal
   terrorism-related programs, activities, and initiatives among involved
   federal departments and agencies. The ASLA will serve as a forum for
   the NDPO Director to elevate issues of concern identified by the state
   and local stakeholders, as well as addressing crosscutting interagency
   domestic preparedness issues and concerns. To obtain direct state and
   local stakeholder input into federal Domestic Preparedness programs,
   the NDPO will establish a state and local Advisory Group. The purpose
   of the Advisory Group is to seek the views, advice, and constructive
   ideas of non-federal actors to aid in the development of a national
   strategy for response to and preparedness for WMD terrorism. The
   Advisory Group will offer advice and recommendations based on state and
   local perspectives from a wide range of professional outlooks. The
   Advisory Group will make recommendations to the Attorney General as
   chair of the DPLG. The composition of the Advisory Group will reflect a
   balanced representation of perspectives and interests from the
   emergency response community. They will represent the diverse
   functional areas of state and local entities that may be involved in
   the planning for or response to a terrorist 10 incident involving WMD.
   Members of the Advisory Group will come from both the public and
   private sectors, as well as governmental and non-governmental agencies.
   The Advisory Group, selected by the Attorney General, will include
   representatives from fire/rescue, HAZMAT, emergency medical and public
   health services, law enforcement, emergency management, and state and
   local governments. Criteria guiding the selection of members will be: *
   Demonstrated background and interest in the issue of domestic
   preparedness, particularly in the area of WMD terrorism response; *
   Objectivity and diversity with regard to professional perspective; *
   Nondiscrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin,
   religion, age, sex, or sexual orientation; and * Geographical balance.
   In accordance with guidelines set forth in the Federal Advisory
   Committee Act, the duration of the Advisory Group will be for a
   two-year term, subject to renewal thereafter. The Advisory Group will
   meet at least four times each year. Advance notice of each meeting will
   be published in the Federal Register to facilitate attendance by the
   first responder community and members of the public. Public comment on
   any agenda topic, either in writing or in person during meetings, will
   be invited. Agendas, membership lists, detailed meeting minutes, and
   discussion papers will be available to the public. The Advisory Group
   will report to and make recommendations to the DPLG on a regular basis.
   The Advisory Group will meet with the DPLG to identify and discuss key
   issues and options from their unique state and local perspective and
   expertise. The broad experience and expertise of each Advisory Group
   member will greatly contribute to the quality of the recommendations
   made to the Attorney General, as chair of the DPLG. Interagency
   Participation Given that the range of potential WMD incidents is so
   varied, it is difficult to determine who will respond first. For
   instance, in response to a blast incident, state and local emergency
   response personnel are likely to be first on the scene, while the
   covert release of a biologic agent is likely to be detected by public
   health epidemiologists and laboratorians days, and possibly even weeks,
   after the agent was released. The goal of the federal domestic
   preparedness program is to better plan for and identify, equip, train,
   and exercise personnel who may be involved at all levels of response to
   a WMD crisis. State and local representatives who are professionals in
   the various emergency response and public health and medical
   disciplines will be integrated into the NDPO and will be key to
   addressing 11 state and local needs. The goal of this approach is take
   advantage of and leverage existing resources, programs, and standards
   that federal, state, and local entities have already committed,
   developed, and identified in each of these primary functional areas.
   The NDPO, therefore, can become an interagency forum through which the
   federal, state, and local partners identify and coordinate their
   individual efforts to build on existing emergency management, public
   health and medical capabilities. The first step for each of the federal
   departments and agencies participating in the NDPO is to identify to
   the NDPO the resources, programs, and standards that the individual
   department or agency has already developed in the planning, exercise,
   training, equipment/R&D, health/medical, and information/intelligence
   sharing areas. Having identified what each federal department or agency
   is doing in each of these areas, the NDPO, as an interagency body
   (including state and local representatives), will then look for
   redundancy or duplication in efforts, or gaps and shortfalls, and
   surface these issues to the interagency community. Participation from
   federal agencies involved in preparedness, planning and response is
   essential to ensuring that federal programs meet the needs of states
   and local communities. Having a "one-stop shop" for information
   regarding federal domestic preparedness programs, will help state and
   local officials to understand the entire federal domestic preparedness
   support program. The NDPO will receive regular guidance from response,
   public health and medical communities through points of contact within
   each state, through information sharing, and after- action exercise and
   incident reporting. The NDPO will strive to address any gaps and
   shortfalls in specific areas, e.g., planning and training. The NDPO
   will be able to provide more efficient coordination of federal WMD
   programs and initiatives based on its federal interagency
   representation and its outreach to the state and local response
   community. State and local responders, public health and medical
   professionals will be able to access information regarding domestic
   preparedness assistance and activities directly from the NDPO through
   its toll free assistance line. The toll free assistance line will be
   available to state and local responders, public health, and medical
   professionals with questions and concerns involving requests for
   training, equipment or federal financial support. The personnel who
   answer these calls will have access to a central database and updated
   information from all program areas within the NDPO. To the extent a
   particular caller requires more specific information, the
   representatives within NDPO from other federal agencies can provide
   information specific to particular agency programs and activities.
   Section II Roles and Missions of Agency Participants 12 The NDPO will
   serve as a clearinghouse and coordination center. Its role is not an
   operational one. The NDPO will not have responsibilities for oversight,
   assessment, or evaluation of federal WMD preparedness programs, but
   will play a role in surfacing issues requiring interagency resolution.
   The NDPO will be an interagency forum through which the federal, state,
   and local partners identify, coordinate and integrate their individual
   efforts in the six primary functional areas identified earlier in order
   to build on existing emergency management capabilities of federal,
   state, and local departments and agencies. Improving coordination and
   communication regarding federal domestic preparedness programs will
   facilitate state and local access to information about these programs.
   Participation from federal agencies involved in preparedness, planning
   and response is essential to ensuring that federal programs meet the
   needs of state and local communities. The role of each of the federal
   partners is to assist state and local jurisdictions in enhancing their
   domestic preparedness capabilities by providing assistance in the areas
   of planning, equipment, technical assistance, training, exercise
   support, and information. Each federal partner will continue to provide
   its equipment, training, exercise, and technical assistance programs;
   but each will do so consistent with agreed upon national WMD
   preparedness policy and guidelines. As a member of the NDPO,
   participating federal partners will contribute by: Planning *
   Coordinating state and local planning and ensuring that crisis and
   consequence management plans are in place across the nation. *
   Participating in the integrated federal planning process to provide
   technical assistance to participating state and local jurisdictions to
   assist in: * Working with federal, state, and local jurisdictions to
   help assess the level of capability to meet WMD terrorist threats. *
   Working with federal/state/local entities to apportion WMD preparedness
   responsibilities. * Identifying federal priorities for initiatives to
   meet equipment support, training and planning support, conduct of
   exercises, and other technical assistance requirements. * Defining
   issues needing federal attention, such as establishing a means of
   identifying, tracking, and treating victims of a WMD event. *
   Determining the key elements of effective preparedness plans. Training
   * Coordinating the establishment of WMD preparedness training standards
   for state/local first responders. * Coordinating the completion of
   state/local training needs assessments to be used to establish training
   priorities. 13 * Incorporating new WMDP training technologies into
   existing WMD training programs. * Providing a clearinghouse for
   evaluations and audits of training. Equipment/R&D * Surfacing to
   federal decision-makers issues requiring interagency resolution about
   unmet personal protection, detection, and specialized response
   equipment requirements of local responders. * Assisting in the
   development of an SEL. * Providing a forum to identify emerging
   technologies that may be integrated into current and future first
   responder training and equipment efforts. * Assisting state and local
   authorities in selecting WMD equipment proven to meet standards of
   interoperability, performance, and safety. Exercises * Providing
   information to facilitate standards and requirements for state and
   local exercises. * Supporting the implementation of a comprehensive
   terrorism exercise program. * Providing information to facilitate state
   and local involvement in exercises. * Ensuring that lessons learned
   from exercises are addressed. Department of Energy The DOE's mission in
   domestic preparedness is to provide training for nuclear and
   radiological incidents to emergency responders and to provide personal
   protective equipment and detection and diagnostic instruments, on a
   selective basis, to state and local law enforcement officials. It
   executes these missions in coordination with DoD and other federal
   departments and agencies. In order to enhance nuclear/radiological
   planning expertise in regional response units, DOE will deploy
   operational planners to DOE Radiological Assistance Program regions to
   facilitate the integration of regional and federal response operations
   plans. In the equipment area, DOE has provided radiation detection
   instruments to state and local first responders, with a goal of issuing
   at least one such radiation detection unit to every responding bomb
   squad in the country. The DOE conducts technical operational field
   training to first responders, and provides classroom training through
   Key Leader Training sessions conducted at DOE facilities. The DOE also
   provides training support to other governmental agency in-service
   training sessions. The DOE provides formal nuclear/radiological
   training to bomb technicians and awareness and operations level
   hazardous materials training to first responders, emergency medical
   service professionals, and hospital personnel. Additionally, DOE
   develops and conducts operational tabletop exercises and advanced
   technical training for first responders. The two primary roles of DOE
   within the NDPO involve coordination and liaison. The DOE's
   participation will assist in the seamless integration of DOE programs,
   where appropriate, to avoid redundancy and fill gaps and shortfalls at
   the federal, state, and local levels within all program 14 areas of the
   NDPO. In its coordinating role, DOE serves as a "one-stop shopping"
   point of information and referral for WMD-related nuclear and
   radiological preparedness issues and questions from stakeholders,
   states, and local jurisdictions. The DOE also serves as the principal
   source of information on WMD-related nuclear and radiological
   preparedness issues for the NDPO itself and for the NDPO's constituents
   among stakeholders and state and local officials. The DOE's
   representative to the NDPO will also serve as the liaison to that
   agency which has developed, and continues to refine, nuclear and
   radiological programs to counter a threatened or actual domestic
   terrorist incident involving WMD. Environmental Protection Agency Under
   the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
   Act, and the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, Congress
   gave EPA legal authority and responsibility to prepare for and respond
   to emergencies involving oil, hazardous substances, and certain
   radiological materials. The specific planning and response mechanism
   established by the EPA using this Congressional authority is the
   National Oil and Hazardous Materials Pollution Contingency Plan (the
   National Contingency Plan or NCP). The NCP establishes a National
   Response System which ensures resources and expertise of the federal
   government would be immediately available for major hazardous materials
   incidents that require federal or regional response. The NCP also
   instituted a planning and response structure entitled the National
   Response Team (NRT), composed of 15 federal agencies and departments,
   as well as Regional Response Teams with representatives of the same
   agencies and departments at the regional level. Due to this legal
   authority, as well as technical expertise, EPA also coordinates
   Emergency Support Function (ESF)-10-Hazardous Materials of the Federal
   Response Plan (FRP) which is overseen by FEMA. ESF-10-Hazardous
   Materials provides for a coordinated response to large-scale releases
   of hazardous materials during a Presidential declared emergency or
   disaster by incorporating the response mechanism and structure of the
   NCP. Other federal agencies also have an active coordination role to
   play in various sections of the FRP. 15 The EPA supports federal
   counterterrorism programs by using and building upon the established
   hazardous materials response structure and mechanism at the federal,
   state, and local level. Specifically EPA will: * Provide planning and
   response expertise and resources prior to and during a terrorist
   incident. The EPA has an established national response mechanism and
   structure for all types of hazardous materials incidents, including
   those which might result from terrorist events, which can be brought to
   bear during a terrorist incident. The EPA also has specialized
   facilities and uniquely qualified personnel to help local and state
   personnel prepare for and respond to hazardous material emergencies. *
   Help state and local responders plan for emergencies. Since 1986,
   Congressional legislation (the Emergency Planning and Community
   Right-to-Know Act or ECPRA) has required every community to develop an
   emergency plan that prepares for the accidental releases of extremely
   hazardous substances, and should one occur, make provisions for rapid
   responses to protect the community. The EPA is working with these local
   communities to update these existing plans to incorporate planning and
   response to deliberate chemical releases that might occur in a
   terrorist incident. * Train First Responders. In addition to EPA's
   existing training program for first responders, EPA is one of six
   federal agencies participating in a program to train personnel who are
   likely to be the first on the scene of a terrorist incident. Local
   first responders will be trained to respond effectively and safely to
   potential terrorist attacks in which chemical or biological agents have
   been used against a civilian population. Department of Health and Human
   Services The HHS serves as the lead federal agency to coordinate
   emergency medical services, emergency medicine, public health and
   nursing activities within the NDPO. This role is consistent with both
   HHS' traditional roles in disaster preparedness, health and medical
   crisis, and consequence management activities and protection of the
   public health and those presented in recent Presidential Decision
   Directives. "HHS (PHS) will be the lead agency to plan and to prepare
   for a national response to medical emergencies arising from the
   terrorist use of weapons of mass destruction. HHS, with the support of
   other Federal agencies, will provide enhanced local response
   capabilities through the development of Metropolitan Medical Strike
   Team systems: will develop and maintain the National Disaster Medical
   System (NDMS), including the National Medical Response Teams; will work
   with DoD to ensure deployment of NDMS response teams, supplies and
   equipment; and, working with the Department of Veterans Affairs, ensure
   adequate stockpiles of antidotes and other necessary pharmaceuticals
   nationwide and the training of medical personnel in NDMS hospitals."
   (Presidential Decision Directive #62  Unclassified) The two primary
   roles of HHS within the NDPO include coordination and liaison. In its
   coordination role, HHS serves as a one-stop shopping point of
   information and referral for WMD- 16 related health and medical
   preparedness issues and questions from stakeholders, states and local
   jurisdictions. Additionally, HHS participation serves as a mechanism to
   facilitate the coordination, and review of health and medical issues
   among the other NDPO program areas, within the interagency community,
   and among state and local officials. Additionally, HHS is the
   designated lead in the effort to upgrade national public health
   capability to counter biologic and chemical terrorism. In this role,
   HHS through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, will work
   with public health partners on strategies to improve
   bioterrorism-related expertise, facilities, and procedures at local,
   state, and national levels. The HHS' presence at the NDPO also serves
   as the liaison to the Department (HHS), which is developing public
   health and medical programs to counter the consequences of a domestic
   terrorist incident involving WMD. These programs include: * Enhancing
   local preparedness through the development of Metropolitan Medical
   Response Systems (MMRS). * Enhancing the National Disaster Medical
   System (NDMS) to be prepared to respond to WMD incidents at the
   national level. * Identifying research and development needed to
   improve civilian medical response to chemical and biological terrorism.
   * Developing initiatives to counter the effects of bioterrorism
   including (1) deterrence of biological terrorism; (2) surveillance for
   unusual outbreaks of illness; (3) medical and public health response;
   and (4) research and development. * Preparing state and local agencies
   and officials to respond to a bioterrorist incident through the
   development of public health preparedness plans, enhanced epidemiology
   and surveillance capacity, improved laboratory capability for
   identification of biologic and chemical agents, and better
   communication networks among state, local, and federal agencies.
   Federal Emergency Management Agency The FEMA's strategy for domestic
   preparedness includes (1) building on existing plans, systems, and
   capabilities; (2) preparing states and local jurisdictions with plans,
   training, and exercises; and (3) the sustainment and reinforcement of
   initial training. The FEMA administers these programs through grants,
   emergency management training, fire service training and state planning
   assistance. Grants are provided to emergency managers to enhance
   terrorism preparedness with planning, training and exercises, as well
   as training fire/rescue departments in responding to terrorist attacks.
   The Emergency Management Institute (EMI) and National Fire Academy
   (NFA) are the primary sources of individual training in these areas.
   Participation in the NDPO allows FEMA to coordinate training delivery
   through additional outlets such as the DoD's Consequence Management
   Program Integration Office and the training institutes of other
   agencies. The FEMA, and specifically the NFA, have been providers of
   first responder training through development and delivery of the
   Emergency Response to Terrorism 17 curriculum. Moreover, through FEMA's
   educational institutions, as well as through coordination with state
   training institutes, courses or programs offered by other agencies may
   be made available to audiences that normally would not have access to
   or visibility of the training programs. State and local awareness of
   FEMA programs will be enhanced by the NDPO's outreach and information
   sharing activities. As other agencies develop and implement programs,
   FEMA will have the opportunity to ensure that its programs are best
   utilized to fill gaps and shortfalls in a particular agency's overall
   strategy. In return, other agencies will be provided with greater
   visibility of their specific programs through the NFA and FEMA's
   regional offices. Department of Defense The Nunn-Lugar-Domenici Defense
   Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 directed the DoD to
   provide (1) training of first responders, (2) establishment of a "hot
   line," (3) loan of appropriate equipment, and (4) use of the National
   Guard and other reserve components as appropriate. The DoD was also
   tasked to develop a rapid response capability, as well as support HHS
   in the establishment of MMRSs. The various programs developed include:
   the city "train-the- trainer" program; an expert assistance program; an
   improved response and exercise program; and a Chemical/Biological Rapid
   Response Team. The DoD also developed and implemented a plan to
   integrate the reserve components into DoD's plans for supporting the
   nation's response to domestic WMD incidents. This led to the formation
   of the Rapid Assessment and Initial Detection (RAID) teams within the
   National Guard. Plans are to leverage the geographically-dispersed
   existing reserve component capabilities to support the DOJ lead. In
   addition, DoD partnered with FEMA to develop databases to track
   chem/bio equipment inventories and chem/bio materials. As part of the
   RAID team development and equipping process, DoD developed a
   comprehensive list of commercially available WMD equipment which passed
   performance capability and DoD safety tests. The DoD has since shared
   the list with the various agencies represented within the NDPO and
   others. This list has been refined based on emergency responder needs
   and now serves as the SEL for emergency responder programs. Under the
   proposed transition of the Nunn-Lugar-Domenici program from DoD to DOJ,
   a solid relationship between all of the federal partners would be
   developed and maintained. The transition plan calls for DoD to retain
   responsibility for the program until the end of Fiscal Year (FY)2000,
   at which time the lead would transfer to DOJ. During FY2000, DoD would
   coordinate with DOJ in the city training/planning phases and DOJ would
   begin to provide grant funding for training equipment. The DoD,
   beginning in FY2001, would support the DOJ lead by maintaining the
   chem-bio database, portions of the improved response program, the
   annual federal/state/local exercise program, "reach-back" expert
   chem-bio assistance, and WMD equipment testing. Within NDPO, DoD
   representation will provide the other supporting agencies with
   knowledge of the multitude of defense programs available to federal,
   state, and local emergency responders. Specifically, distance learning
   networks, training and simulation centers, and planned domestic WMD
   preparedness exercises will be coordinated with other agencies.
   Department of Justice 18 OJP/Office for State and Local Domestic
   Preparedness Support (OSLDPS) The OSLDPS within the OJP assists state
   and local jurisdictions in enhancing their domestic preparedness
   capabilities by providing assistance to jurisdictions to acquire
   equipment, technical assistance, exercises and training. As a
   participant in the NDPO, OJP will provide assistance to state and local
   jurisdictions in these areas consistent with the policy, guidelines,
   and principles coordinated by the NDPO. In the equipment area, OJP's
   Equipment Acquisition Grant program enables state and local
   jurisdictions to purchase much-needed equipment for responding to a WMD
   incident. The OJP will participate in the interagency Equipment Program
   Area, coordinated by the NDPO, along with the other federal agencies
   that offer assistance programs. This participation will enhance their
   equipment program through projects such as the continuous refinement of
   the SEL, which will assist grantees in purchasing equipment that meets
   nationally-established standards. In addition, the SEL and related
   interagency projects developed or supported by the NDPO, will support
   the research and development efforts for state and local authorities,
   by the National Institute of Justice, National Institute of Science and
   Technology, DoD, the FBI Laboratory and others. The OJP currently
   offers a broad spectrum of training to ensure that state and local
   emergency responders have the knowledge, skills and abilities to
   respond if a terrorist incident occurs through its Metropolitan Fire
   and Emergency Services Training Program and through the National
   Domestic Preparedness Consortium, a key element of the federal
   government's domestic preparedness initiative. Jurisdictions that
   receive equipment grants for fire and emergency medical services
   receive training in handling explosives, incendiary, chemical and
   biological devices through OSLDPS. While jurisdictions can receive
   specialized training to respond to WMD incidents through the
   Consortium, these programs will be enhanced through participation in
   the NDPO, which will provide an interagency mechanism and a forum for
   certifying the training courses offered and ensuring that training
   programs comply with minimum national standards. The National Institute
   for Justice (NIJ) within OJP conducts research for Counterterrorism
   Technology Development. Among its programs, NIJ conducts operational
   testing and assessment of technologies currently under development,
   supports new efforts to develop lower cost, more effective tools, and
   supports continued development of concealed weapons detection
   technologies. Through OJP's participation in the NDPO, the research
   conducted in these programs will be shared and coordinated among other
   agencies and state and local responders. Federal Bureau of
   Investigation In addition to hosting the NDPO, the FBI also has WMD
   program responsibilities like OJP, FEMA, DoD, DOE, EPA, HHS, and other
   participants of the NDPO. Like these other entities, the FBI has a
   number of WMD assets and programs which it contributes to the Federal
   Domestic Preparedness Program and will coordinate with the NDPO. 19 For
   instance, the FBI Hazardous Materials Response Unit (HMRU) assists FBI
   field offices in an advisory and liaison capacity with technical
   information regarding the identification and safe handling of chemical,
   biological, and nuclear/radiological agents. In addition, the FBI
   Laboratory is engaged in a number of coordinated terrorism-related
   research and development efforts with the DoD , DOE and NIJ.
   Administered by the FBI's Bomb Data Center, the Hazardous Devices
   School (HDS) at Redstone Arsenal is the sole source for the
   certification of federal, state, and local public safety bomb
   technicians. Similarly, WMD Coordinators within the 56 FBI Field
   Offices nationwide are another asset of the FBI which NDPO can access.
   With their assistance, the NDPO can utilize the FBI's communications
   systems and infrastructure to disseminate awareness-based information
   to the state and local response communities. The FBI, in conjunction
   with other agencies represented within the NDPO, will assist state and
   local planners in developing threat and risk assessments, as well as
   providing, on request, assistance in the development of integrated
   domestic preparedness plans at the state and local levels. Along with
   the other agencies, the FBI will have representatives within the NDPO
   to coordinate these programs within the broader federal domestic
   preparedness effort. 20 Section III Enhancing Federal Domestic
   Preparedness Efforts  Functional Areas of the NDPO Planning The Federal
   Government is required to plan for and respond to threats or acts of
   terrorism, while state and local governments are required to plan for
   and respond to the consequences of all emergencies to save lives and
   protect property. Planning is an essential part of domestic terrorism
   preparedness and incident response. One of the NDPO's primary goals
   will be to coordinate the development of state and local plans in
   concert with those of the Federal Government. In addition, the NDPO
   notes that in order to be truly effective, the NDPO must not only
   understand the planning methodology and plans of the state and local
   crisis and consequence managers, but ensure that federal plans
   interface with state and local plans to facilitate effective crisis and
   consequence management. Objectives The NDPO will build on existing
   programs, structures, and relationships for coordinating federal, state
   and local WMD planning efforts. Some of the main objectives are to: *
   Increase the knowledge of federal, state and local WMD crisis and
   consequence planners and managers regarding the relationship between
   federal, state and local response plans and operations and the Incident
   Command System (ICS). * Assist in identifying and eliminating
   shortfalls and gaps between state and local WMD crisis and consequence
   management plans and federal plans. * Address and track
   planning-related lessons learned from WMD responses and exercises, and
   provide information to the field concerning common planning issues and
   suggested solutions. * Integrate the health care community into WMD
   terrorism response planning efforts. 21 Some of the first tasks will
   be: Planning Guide -- The NDPO will survey existing tools available for
   planning, identify areas of duplication, and facilitate development of
   a comprehensive guide for use by state and local teams working in
   coordination with federal representatives across the country.
   Development of a comprehensive planning guide will be conducted by the
   agencies with primary responsibility for a particular area. Threat and
   Risk Assessments -- The NDPO will facilitate the coordinated
   development by relevant federal agencies of a variety of
   self-assessment templates, or tools, to assist state and local
   officials in identifying the threat and risk posed to a community by
   the terrorist use of weapons of mass destruction. This self-assessment
   process is intended to assist a community in assessing their
   capabilities to determine the type and level of training and equipment
   required to address deficiencies. Lessons Learned  The NDPO will
   establish a clearinghouse of information concerning planning- related
   issues that are identified in after action "lessons learned" from
   exercises and incidents that occur in the field. The NDPO will
   disseminate the necessary information regarding these issues to the
   federal, state and local planning communities. Training The NDPO will
   help coordinate the federal government's efforts to assist state and
   local training strategies by serving as an interagency forum to
   integrate WMD training programs with existing training mechanisms. By
   building upon existing standards identified to the NDPO by its
   interagency participants, the NDPO will help to meet the needs of the
   emergency response and health care communities. The NDPO will also
   provide a forum for federal, state and local participation in the
   development of future standards. The NDPO's activities with regard to
   training will include representatives from OJP, DoD, DOE, HHS,
   Department of Transportation (DOT), FEMA, EPA, and experts from other
   disciplines as appropriate. These agencies will develop training within
   their respective areas of expertise in consultation with the
   participating federal agencies, state and local government officials,
   and the emergency response and health care communities. Objectives *
   Provide a clearinghouse for available federal training in the area of
   domestic preparedness as it relates to responding to terrorist
   incidents involving WMD. * Provide a mechanism whereby domestic
   preparedness training needs are assessed; training solutions identified
   and/or developed, standardized, tiered, and evaluated; and delivery of
   training to the emergency response and health care communities is
   coordinated. 22 Some of the first tasks will be: Needs Assessment Tool
   -- The key to coordinated training for WMD preparedness will be an
   accurate assessment of the needs and priorities across jurisdictions.
   The NDPO will identify existing assessment tools to determine any gaps
   or duplication. In its function as an interagency forum, the NDPO will
   coordinate and facilitate the consolidation of existing tools or the
   development of any necessary new tools by the appropriate agency. This
   self-assessment will be used to tailor the available federal domestic
   preparedness training to the specific needs of an individual
   jurisdiction. This assessment tool will build on similar work
   previously or currently being done by other federal agencies, and will
   coordinate those results to create a standardized needs assessment
   tool. The needs assessment tool will integrate training requirements
   with those requirements identified through compatible assessments
   conducted in the areas of equipment and planning. Curriculum
   Development -- The NDPO will catalogue all federal domestic
   preparedness training in the "Compendium of Weapons of Mass Destruction
   Courses." With the assistance of state and local representatives from
   the emergency response and health care community, the NDPO will
   identify shortfalls in existing federal training initiatives. Once a
   shortfall is identified, the NDPO will work with the federal
   interagency community to identify the most appropriate agency to
   develop curricula to eliminate those shortfalls. A key state and local
   training asset available to the NDPO in this effort is the National
   Domestic Preparedness Consortium, which is comprised of the OJP Center
   for Domestic Preparedness, located at Fort McClellan, Alabama; the
   National Energetic Materials Research and Testing Center, located at
   the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology; the National Center
   for Bio-Medical Research and Training, located at the Louisiana State
   University; the National Emergency and Response and Rescue Training
   Center, located at the Texas A&M University; and the DOE National
   Exercise, Test, and Training Center (Nevada Test Site). The OJP, as a
   member of the NDPO, will conduct its training activities in a manner
   consistent with the policies, principles, and guidelines produced by
   the NDPO through the interagency process. These activities will be
   conducted in accordance with NDPO's training program to ensure federal
   interagency coordination, and to leverage existing training curricula
   that can be modified or integrated into the Consortium's training
   program, thereby keeping new curricula development to a minimum.
   Curriculum Standards -- The NDPO will work to verify that federal
   domestic preparedness training initiatives meet the applicable
   standards established through the National Fire Protection Association
   (NFPA) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), as
   well as other pertinent regulatory entities. The NDPO will also
   coordinate the development of national standards upon which to base
   future programs, and to which all federal agencies may contribute. The
   NDPO will form focus groups on an as needed basis to address the review
   of newly developed training, and to ensure compliance with these
   established uniform standards. These focus groups will include state
   and local experts from the applicable response disciplines. The NDPO
   will also build from existing efforts within the federal government
   like HHS' current work with the American College of Emergency
   Physicians to develop course competencies and performance objectives
   for physicians, nurses and paramedics. 23 Curriculum Delivery -- The
   NDPO will identify existing training delivery systems, such as the
   National Domestic Preparedness Consortium, FEMA's National Fire Academy
   and Emergency Management Institute, used by federal departments and
   agencies offering domestic preparedness training. The NDPO will also
   coordinate among federal departments and agencies the development and
   implementation of additional training delivery systems, such as
   distance training technologies, for use by state and local
   jurisdictions. Sustainment Training -- Recognizing the likelihood for
   personnel turnover within the emergency response and health care
   community, and the technical nature of much of the curriculum, the NDPO
   will coordinate the development of sustainment training, including
   means to fully integrate WMD training into existing entry core
   curriculums, their certification and re-certification processes. This
   type of "embedded training" within fire and police academies, medical
   schools and other emergency responder training facilities will
   eventually help to reduce the number of students requiring sustainment
   training. This training will assist state and local jurisdictions with
   the sustainment of those WMD response-related skills acquired during
   initial responder training sessions. Monitoring and Tracking of
   Available Training -- The NDPO recognizes that techniques and
   procedures will change with evolving technologies and lessons learned
   during the execution of training, as well as actual responses to
   incidents. Accordingly, the NDPO will facilitate the incorporation of
   lessons learned into appropriate training curricula. Exercises
   Exercises provide the means by which the first responder community may
   evaluate and validate its current training and equipment. They also
   provide an essential capabilities assessment by identifying strengths
   and weaknesses in plans, policies, procedures and supporting systems,
   as well as shortfalls in training and equipment. The WMD exercises must
   be realistic, hands-on events based on threat-driven scenarios that are
   designed to evaluate performance, reinforce training and provide
   positive feedback. The exercises should incorporate a multi-team,
   multi-agency concept, ranging from simple local events to complex
   multi-jurisdictional national level episodes. The NDPO will be a
   clearinghouse for information regarding federal efforts in support of
   state and local WMD exercises. Federal exercise efforts that focus
   almost exclusively on the participation of federal agency personnel and
   assets must be fully coordinated with state and local exercises that
   also may be taking place. The NDPO will develop a system that utilizes
   input from the Advisory Group, as well as the governor's state-level
   points of contact to coordinate state and local involvement in
   scheduling, planning and conducting coordinated exercises, and the
   lessons learned from these exercises will be fed back to relevant
   agencies through their participation in the NDPO . Objectives The
   objective of the NDPO with regard to exercises is to provide
   recommendations, guidance and technical support for WMD exercises by
   offering a standardized approach to planning, 24 conducting, and
   facilitation of lessons learned, to improve federal exercises, and
   assist state and local participation. Some of the first tasks will be:
   Exercise Master Events List -- The NDPO will initially compile and
   maintain a list of all planned federal WMD-related exercises, in
   coordination with the Interagency Working Group for Counterterrorism
   Exercises, that are suitable for participation by state and local
   authorities. The NDPO will provide improved interagency communication
   and notification of WMD exercises on a long-term basis. The NDPO will
   disseminate exercise schedule updates through the single point of
   contact appointed by the State Governors, as well as through a secure
   website. As the NDPO develops, it will also work to create a database
   of state WMD exercises being conducted, and apply the lessons learned
   after-action tracking system to provide feedback to the NDPO. Scenario
   Simulation Templates -- The NDPO will identify existing exercise models
   based on a variety of WMD scenarios and will make these models
   available to state and local communities. Such scenarios could involve
   a terrorist attack using either a nuclear, biological, chemical or
   large Improvised Explosive Device (IED). Lessons Learned
   After-Action-Tracking System -- Federal response and coordination in
   crisis and consequence management will be streamlined and improved by
   learning from the experiences of first responders. The NDPO will record
   and disseminate lessons learned from exercises that affect operations
   and interagency coordination and cooperation. State and local
   jurisdictions that conduct WMD exercises will be encouraged to submit
   relevant after-action reports to the NDPO to determine whether or not
   the exercise accomplished its objectives and how the exercise could be
   improved in the future. The after-action tracking system will provide a
   method for identifying vulnerabilities and formulating recommendations
   to address them. The after-action-tracking system of lessons learned
   will improve the capabilities of emergency responders and health care
   professionals to respond to actual incidents. Exercise after-action
   reviews and other information will be consolidated at the state level
   under the state points-of-contact and subsequently forwarded to the
   NDPO. The results of these lessons learned will be compiled and
   provided back to the state and local communities upon request. The
   lessons learned format will be carefully structured so that it is not
   perceived to be a means by which to assess blame or discredit the
   reputation of any persons or organizations concerning any issues raised
   during the exercise and overall domestic preparedness process.
   Technical Assistance -- Through the federal agencies represented in the
   NDPO, technical assistance will be available to states and local
   communities before, during, and after conducting WMD exercises. This
   technical assistance, when requested, will consist of answering
   questions during the planning of a WMD exercise, taking into account
   all of the necessary components and issues which should be addressed
   before conducting such an exercise. Equipment/Research & Development 25
   Stakeholders requested that a national equipment information
   clearinghouse be established to provide data and feedback on research
   and development, equipment availability, and operational testing and
   performance data. Stakeholders also requested access to community-based
   federal assets to supplement first responder equipment and that federal
   funds help state and local governments to purchase WMD equipment.
   Stakeholders suggested the development of a matrix of recommended
   protective levels for various responder disciplines and that support
   for the supply and maintenance of regional pharmaceutical and medical
   equipment caches be established. The NDPO will respond to many of these
   concerns by bringing together a board of interagency officials from
   various local, state, and federal agencies to establish, maintain and
   update a national SEL for use by the interagency community in
   preparation for and response to WMD. Objectives The objective of the
   NDPO with regards to Equipment/Research and Development is to
   facilitate equipment standardization and interoperability throughout
   the emergency response community, and to develop and maintain an SEL
   for use by the interagency community in preparing for and responding to
   WMD terrorism. Some of the first tasks will be: Standardized Equipment
   List -- The Interagency Board, comprised of highly trained individuals
   from various local, state and federal agencies, will work through six
   subgroups to develop and maintain the SEL for the benefit of the
   federal, state and local response communities. SEL Updating -- As WMD
   awareness and preparedness increases, newer and better tools will
   likely become available to the emergency response and health care
   communities to assist them in responding to a WMD threat or incident.
   With advances in technology will come improved equipment designed to
   enhance the capabilities of on-scene first responders. Improvements in
   detection, protection and communications equipment will require that
   the NDPO periodically update the SEL in order to make this equipment
   available to the emergency response and health care community. The NDPO
   will be able to disseminate the information regarding newly available
   equipment through its website, newsletter, and other media. Research &
   Development -- The NDPO will consolidate and disseminate information
   regarding emerging WMD equipment technology. This information will be
   available to both responders and equipment designers, as appropriate to
   assist in the development of new equipment to allow responders to
   prepare for and respond to a WMD event. Equipment Testing -- Before
   stakeholders decide on which equipment will best suit their specific
   needs in responding to a WMD event, they will undoubtedly want to know
   the specific applications, capabilities and limitations of the
   equipment that is available. The NDPO will work with the relevant
   federal agencies that conduct equipment testing or development to
   ensure that the independent test 26 results on specific equipment items
   are made as widely available as possible. The NDPO will not conduct any
   equipment testing or act as an advocate for any particular brand,
   style, or type of equipment. Rather, it will merely be responsible for
   disseminating test results to the first responder community for
   stakeholders to use as a basis for their decisions on which types of
   equipment will most efficiently meet their specific needs. Responder
   Equipment Requirements -- Based on input from experts in the Advisory
   Group, the NDPO will work to establish for the emergency response and
   health care community a standardized set of requirements that all WMD
   response equipment should meet. The NDPO will provide advice to
   stakeholders as to the minimum capabilities required from their
   equipment to respond effectively to a WMD incident. Benchmarks such as
   the NFPA and the OSHA standards may be used to report to the first
   responder community on the minimum performance standards recommended
   for WMD response equipment. In addition to providing the first
   responder community with an overall list of available WMD response
   equipment, and their testing results, the NDPO will provide information
   pertaining to federal grants and funding programs designed to provide
   the necessary WMD response equipment to the state and local first
   responder community. State and local agencies can access NDPO directly
   for information regarding equipment procurement. The NDPO will then
   identify the most appropriate agency to assist the requestor.
   Information Sharing Sharing information regarding federal assistance
   programs for the state and local emergency response and health care
   community is critical to a coordinated domestic preparedness effort.
   The cornerstones of this effort at the state and local levels will be
   the single points of contact appointed by the Governors. In keeping
   with stakeholders' recommendations that the federal government improve
   the information sharing process with the state and local authorities,
   the NDPO will facilitate the dissemination of WMD related information
   among federal, state and local offices and agencies. Objectives The
   NDPO's information sharing objective is to communicate
   awareness-related information directly to the state and local emergency
   response and health care communities. The NDPO will serve as a
   clearinghouse to collect and disseminate WMD preparedness and response
   guides, publications, fact sheets, and articles of interest to the
   emergency response community. The focus will be on alerting
   stakeholders to trends or vulnerabilities resulting from terrorist
   threats or attacks. The NDPO will provide accurate, intelligence-based
   WMD awareness information to state and local authorities to promote
   public safety, emergency planning and response activities. Through its
   web sites and a monthly newsletter, the NDPO will establish direct
   communications between the federal government and the state and local
   first responder communities. These mechanisms will allow direct input
   from state and local emergency responders and maintain a constant
   dialogue between the response community and the federal agencies
   concerned. 27 Some of the first tasks will be: Special Bulletin -- The
   NDPO will coordinate with an analytical team from substantive units
   within the FBI that regularly receive intelligence information,
   including those within the International Terrorism Section, the
   Domestic Terrorism Section, National Infrastructure Protection Center,
   and others. This analytical team will serve as a clearinghouse group to
   ensure that awareness-based domestic preparedness information is
   properly compiled, sanitized, and uniformly disseminated to recipients
   in the state and local communities. The NDPO will disseminate this
   information in the form of Special Bulletins through the single points
   of contact appointed by the Governors, through appropriate law
   enforcement channels or directly to the appropriate personnel. Prior to
   the actual dissemination of the bulletin, the appropriate federal
   agencies represented within the NDPO will receive a draft copy for
   review. The NDPO will also disseminate Special Bulletins, as necessary,
   to provide or reiterate important general public safety information.
   The Special Bulletins will provide notifications to first responders
   via facsimile and/or e-mail concerning critical WMD-related events or
   issues that may have a direct impact on first responders and the
   communities they protect. This will allow the NDPO to quickly and
   directly disseminate interagency information to the appropriate
   personnel. Toll Free Assistance Number -- Through the toll-free
   assistance line, state and local responders will be able to access the
   NDPO directly with questions and concerns involving requests for
   training, equipment or federal financial support. The personnel who
   answer these calls will have access to a central database and updated
   information regarding equipment, training, etc. To the extent a
   particular caller requires more specific information, the NDPO's
   representatives from other federal agencies can provide information
   specific to a particular agency's programs and activities. In addition,
   the state points of contact appointed by the Governors will provide a
   mechanism by which state and local issues and concerns can be compiled
   and presented directly to the NDPO. This toll- free assistance line
   will not serve as an operational reporting or emergency line, and will
   not supersede any existing operational emergency lines operated by any
   federal agency. Websites  To ensure that accurate information is shared
   with the appropriate recipients in an efficient manner, the NDPO has
   established an unclassified Internet webpage accessible to the public
   through www.fbi.gov. This public affairs-related webpage is designed to
   promote public awareness regarding WMD threats and the actions that can
   be taken by citizens to protect themselves and their community. The
   development of this "Awareness Training" website included input from
   the NDPO's state and local partners. The NDPO will develop future web
   sites that will differ in the level of user access and the type of
   information available to better share information with the WMD
   emergency responder community. Through Law Enforcement Online (LEO),
   the NDPO has established an unclassified Intranet- based webpage
   accessible to registered members of the first response community. The
   NDPO webpage will include information regarding the six program areas
   of the NDPO, as well as links to participating state, local, and
   federal partner Internet sites. The NDPO/LEO webpage empowers the first
   response community by providing them the means to become interconnected
   through a shared network. The system allows the user to participate 28
   in distance learning, chat room sessions, electronic bulletin boards
   and secure e-mail. It also assists in learning about grant funds. The
   system is designed to allow stakeholders the opportunity for one- stop
   shopping on preparedness issues. Monthly Newsletter  An NDPO monthly
   newsletter, The Beacon, will provide a forum for the participating
   agencies to make announcements, disseminate information and request
   input from outside sources. This newsletter will be made available to
   federal, state and local emergency responder and health care agencies.
   The Beacon will also provide the latest information available on
   training and equipment, as well as upcoming WMD exercises scheduled
   throughout the country. Public Speaking Assistance -- The NDPO will
   coordinate public speaking engagements relevant to domestic
   preparedness and its programs by maintaining a list of qualified
   speakers and topics. The NDPO will be able to provide public speaking
   assistance at the national, regional, state, and local levels. Through
   its information sharing efforts, appropriate speakers will be
   recommended for upcoming speaking engagements. In addition to speakers
   representing NDPO itself, the NDPO will maintain a voluntary database
   for speakers with expertise in other areas. This data will be drawn
   from all of the participating agencies and regions nationwide. 29
   Health and Medical Services The primary impact of a terrorist use of a
   WMD will be upon human and environmental health. Incidents involving
   WMD could produce unprecedented numbers of victims, quickly
   overwhelming the capacity of local hospitals and healthcare providers.
   One of the highest priorities expressed by stakeholders is the need to
   integrate the medical and public health community into federal WMD
   response initiatives and national domestic preparedness. This
   integration must include engagement of the public health and medical
   community in preparing for the medical consequences of the terrorist
   use of a WMD. Communities must have plans in place for the mass
   prophylaxis of exposed and potentially exposed persons, mass patient
   care, mass fatality management and environmental health surety. Without
   such preparedness, communities could be overwhelmed. In the past,
   federal WMD planning, training, exercise, and equipment initiatives
   have focused on initial responders to WMD incidents, such as
   fire/rescue, HAZMAT, and law enforcement personnel. State and local
   communities realize that a biological weapon of mass destruction poses
   an even greater health risk to the community with regard to the number
   of citizens exposed, and the difficulty in recognizing the early signs
   of a biological attack. The high risk of widespread life threatening
   infectious disease resulting from the use of a biological weapon caused
   state and local communities to assess their own abilities to respond to
   such an incident. Closer coordination of the medical and public health
   communities at the federal, state and local levels is critical. The
   NDPO's focus on public health and medical services will be coordinated
   by HHS and comprised of members from HHS, other federal partners, and
   representatives from state and local health and medical professionals.
   The NDPO will ensure that the health and medical community perspectives
   and needs are coordinated and fully incorporated into the other NDPO
   areas; i.e., Planning, Training, Equipment/R&D, Exercise, and
   Information Sharing. It will also ensure that these perspectives are
   reflected as a priority overall within the NDPO. Specifically, the NDPO
   will serve as a "one-stop-shopping" point of information and referral
   for WMD-related health and medical preparedness issues and questions
   from stakeholders, states, and local jurisdictions. Second, it will
   serve as a mechanism for HHS to facilitate the coordination, and review
   of health and medical issues with regard to domestic preparedness. Some
   of the tasks will be to: * Participate in addressing public health and
   medical issues within all other NDPO areas. * Work with state and local
   Advisory Groups to assist in identifying and integrating their
   medical/public health needs into the efforts of the NDPO as a whole.
   Recognizing that state and local entities may vary from region to
   region and from rural to urban localities, the NDPO will tailor
   information to meet different needs. 30 * Provide a coordinator/liaison
   to any designated NDPO focus group to ensure health and medical issues
   are raised by the group. * Assist with the integration and
   dissemination of public health information throughout the NDPO's
   information sharing efforts. * Act as a source for obtaining
   information for communities concerning development of MMRS. * Encourage
   stakeholders to identify and develop comprehensive health and medical
   systems plans that will become the linchpin for local, county, state,
   and regional WMD response planning. * Interface with other NDPO areas
   to ensure that issues concerning training, exercises, and equipment are
   in harmony with the community's health and medical response plans. A
   crucial function of the NDPO will be the coordination and sharing of
   information on public health issues related to chemical, biological and
   nuclear terrorism. Matters related to public health infrastructure will
   either be addressed directly, or they will be referred to recognized,
   authoritative sources in the health and medical community. Health care
   systems must have the ability to meet the unique challenges posed by a
   terrorist act involving a WMD. It will fall upon the local
   jurisdiction's existing public health and medical systems to manage
   adequately and effectively the human health consequences of a WMD
   terrorist incident. Providing appropriate care for the affected
   population and obtaining critical health system assets, including
   health professionals, pharmaceuticals, equipment, and facilities, are
   crucial to a successful response. Health system response requirements
   are driven by the type of WMD incident encountered, and the setting in
   which it occurs (rural community, suburb, city, or major metropolitan
   area). A chemical incident will result in immediate effects at a known
   site, on-scene determination of the causative agent, and a timely
   response. The effects of the release of a biological weapon, however,
   may not be apparent for days or even weeks and would include response
   issues such as mass prophylaxis, mass patient care, mass fatality
   management and infection control. Response Planning In a major
   terrorist incident involving WMD, the key consequence management
   planning issues will be medical and public health. The two major
   elements of response planning for a WMD incident are the development of
   appropriate local public health and medical response plans and the
   integration of federal response capabilities into these plans. The NDPO
   will be responsible for providing guidance to state and local
   jurisdictions in developing their individual plans, including plans for
   integrating the state and federal response to an emergency. These and
   related efforts will be closely coordinated with other efforts of the
   NDPO. 31 Health and medical input will be provided regarding the
   preparation of planning guides and the dissemination of planning
   information. Effective response planning will focus on enabling local
   jurisdictions to quickly identify and safely treat victims in a mass
   casualty environment, protect those who are at risk of exposure, and
   ensure that adequate federal assistance and support for these efforts
   are available, as needed. Consulting with the States on a National
   Strategy for Domestic Preparedness A coherent national strategy for
   domestic preparedness will depend on the needs and capabilities of
   individual jurisdictions. Any national strategy must make sure that no
   community is left out. When and if a terrorist incident occurs, each
   jurisdiction must be prepared  terrorists will not discriminate between
   large and small cities, or urban and rural jurisdictions. The proposal
   for the establishment of the NDPO represents a response to the call of
   stakeholders who requested one office at the federal level to
   coordinate information about federal domestic preparedness programs.
   The Attorney General and her federal partners in this effort continue
   to listen to the concerns of the first responder community. Over the
   past several months, and through further consultation with
   stakeholders, the Governors, and the Congress, the need for greater
   state involvement in the domestic preparedness strategy efforts has
   emerged. A National Strategy  Building a Two-Way Street State and local
   responders and their federal counterparts will need to work side by
   side within their states to develop comprehensive plans that address
   planning, training, equipment and exercises that incorporate the needs
   and capabilities of the entire state. Therefore, the key to
   comprehensive planning for a coordinated response to a terrorist
   incident will be involvement at the state level. A dynamic state
   presence every step of the way will be critical to a coordinated
   federal, state and local partnership in each state. The Attorney
   General and the Director of FEMA will ask each Governor to identify a
   point of contact within each state who will have direct contact with
   the NDPO. It is essential that this person be appointed at the state
   level because planning for a national strategy must be done with the
   perspective of the entire state. This person will have the most
   knowledge of the state's existing emergency plans and capabilities and
   can most effectively help build on those plans to incorporate terrorism
   and WMD-readiness planning into the state's existing capabilities. The
   state point of contact can work with the local federal agency
   representatives in creating a comprehensive planning effort within the
   state. The state points of contact will be the key to the comprehensive
   state planning effort since they will know their states best and can
   facilitate the working relationships between the federal, state and
   local communities that will be so critical to the success of a national
   strategy. Outreach to Communities 32 As part of its effort to build
   federal, state, and local partnerships, the NDPO will reach out to city
   and community officials with the assistance of the state point of
   contact as the liaison to the emergency responder community within the
   state. Interactions with the emergency responder communities will
   provide an opportunity for federal officials involved in domestic
   preparedness efforts to learn first-hand the concerns as well as the
   capabilities of state and local emergency responders. Through planning
   groups brought together by the state and local responders the emergency
   responder community will be able to furnish input directly into the
   NDPO and the federal planning process for the design of a national
   strategy for domestic preparedness. The state point of contact
   appointed by the Governor will have direct contact with NDPO in order
   to ensure that federal efforts are responsive to the changing needs of
   the country's emergency responders. This direct input will enable the
   NDPO to improve the focus of its six program areas as necessary. A
   comprehensive national strategy for domestic preparedness will require
   careful planning and cooperation among all those who will respond in
   the event of a WMD incident. Through the efforts of the state points of
   contact, together with a coordinated approach of the federal
   government, partnerships can emerge which will be critical to an
   effective national strategy for domestic preparedness. 33 ACRONYMS 34
   ACRONYMS ASLA ASSISTANCE TO STATE AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES CONPLAN CONCEPT
   OF OPERATIONS PLAN CT COUNTER TERRORISM DFO DESIGNATED FEDERAL OFFICER
   HHS DEPT. OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES DOD DEPT. OF DEFENSE DOE DEPT.
   OF ENERGY DOJ DEPT. OF JUSTICE DPLG DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS LEADERSHIP
   GROUP EMI EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE EPA ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
   AGENCY EPCRA EMERGENCY PLANNING AND COMMUNITY RIGHT TO KNOW ACT FBI
   FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION FEMA FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   AGENCY FRP FEDERAL RESPONSE PLAN HAZMAT HAZARDOUS MATERIALS HDS
   HAZARDOUS DEVICES SCHOOL HMO HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION IAB
   INTERAGENCY BOARD ICS INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM IED IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE
   DEVICE 35 IPA INTERGOVERNMENTAL PERSONNEL ACT IWG INTERAGENCY WORKING
   GROUP LEO LAW ENFORCEMENT ONLINE LEPC LOCAL EMERGENCY PLANNING
   COMMITTEE MMRS METROPOLITAN MEDICAL RESPONSE SYSTEM MMST METROPOLITAN
   MEDICAL STRIKE TEAM MOA MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT MOU MEMORANDUM OF
   UNDERSTANDING NDPC NATIONAL DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS CONSORTIUM NDPO
   NATIONAL DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS OFFICE NFA NATIONAL FIRE ACADEMY NFPA
   NATIONAL FIRE PROTECTION ASSOCIATION NGB NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU NIJ
   NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE NRC NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION NSC
   NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL OJP OFFICE OF JUSTICE PROGRAMS OSHA
   OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY HAZARD AGENCY OSLDPS OFFICE FOR STATE AND LOCAL
   DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS SUPPORT PDD PRESIDENTIAL DECISION DIRECTIVE PHMSP
   PUBLIC HEALTH AND MEDICAL SERVICES PROGRAM RAID RAPID ASSESSMENT AND
   INITIAL DETECTION 36 RRIS RAPID RESPONSE INFORMATION SYSTEM SEL
   STANDARDIZED EQUIPMENT LIST SLAG STATE AND LOCAL ADVISORY GROUP USCG
   UNITED STATES COAST GUARD VA VETERAN'S ADMINISTRATION WINJIIP WINDOWS
   JOINT INTERAGENCY INPUT PROGRAM WMD WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION 37
