http://www.census.gov/genealogy/www/

   U.S. Census Bureau

GENEALOGY

  Although censuses are a source of genealogical information, the Census Bureau
  does not provide these data. The Census Bureau is not able to locate missing
  persons, or provide recent information on individuals.

   In keeping with the Census Bureau's commitment to confidentiality, the
   Census Bureau information collected in the Decennial Census of
   Population and Housing on individuals does not become available to the
   public until after 72 years.

   If you are looking for information on genealogy please see number 2
   below and our FAQ.

    1. What the Census Bureau has--
       The only service we provide related to genealogy is the Age Search
       Service.
       In addition, we have two offerings that may be of interest to
       genealogists. They are counts of names from the 1990 Census. We
       have no other names data.
          + Frequently Occurring First Names and Surnames From the 1990
            Census
            NOTE: These files contain only a sample of the 1990
            population. The fact that a name does not appear, does not
            mean that it is nonexistent, only that it is reasonably rare.
            For more information about the limitations of the data see the
            documentation file.
          + Spanish Surname List For the 1990 Census
    2. Other Sources for Census Information--
       The letters PDF or symbol PDF indicate a document is in the
       Portable Document Format (PDF). To view file you will need the
       Adobe(R) Acrobat(R) Reader which is available for free from the
       Adobe web site.
       Factfinder for the Nation: Availability of Census Records About
       Individuals PDF
       Issued May 2000
       CFF No.2
       The Census Bureau does not have old census forms available. Copies
       of decennial census forms from 1790 through 1920 are available on
       microfilm, for research at the U.S. National Archives and Records
       Administration in Washington, DC, at Archives regional centers, and
       at select Federal depository libraries throughout the United
       States. In addition, these records are available at various other
       libraries and research facilities throughout the United States.
       See our lastest file of freqently asked questions (FAQs) about
       genealogy.

   Send comments and suggestions to: Genealogy@Census.GOV. If you are
   looking for ancestors please read the FAQ.

                         Source: U.S. Census Bureau
              Maintained By: Laura K. Yax (Population Division)
                Last Revised: August 30, 2000 at 09:15:02 AM
   Skip this main site navigation menu Census 2000  |  Subjects A to Z  |
      Search  |  Product Catalog  |  Data Tools  |  FOIA  |  Quality  |
                 Privacy · Policies  |  Contact Us  |  Home
           U.S. Census Bureau: Helping You Make Informed Decisions
