http://billnelson.senate.gov/issues/ergoFS.html


                       Senator Bill Nelson of Florida


                           [schedule.jpg]
                           [spacer.gif]
                           [bio.jpg]
                           [spacer.gif]
                           [career.jpg]
                           [spacer.gif]
                           [intern.gif]
                           [nelsonbuttons_04.jpg]

                                [spacer.gif]

               Statement of Senator Bill Nelson on Ergonomics,
                                Mar. 6, 2001

     MR. NELSON OF FLORIDA: Mr. President, I approach the debate on this
     resolution with a considerable degree of disappointment. To put it
                  bluntly, it should not have come to this.

       It is absolutely clear that there is a need for workers to gain
    protection for ergonomic injuries. All one has to do is spend time in
   any workplace environment to see the stresses that can lead to serious
     back, shoulder, arm, and wrist injuries. These injuries are just as
   real, and in many cases just as debilitating, as more obvious injuries
    that are more likely to be covered under state worker's compensation
                                    laws.

   In 1990, then-Secretary of Labor Elizabeth Dole recognized the need to
    provide protection from these injuries and directed the Occupational
     Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to issue a rule. After ten
    years of research, debate, and comments from the business community,
          labor, and Congress, that rule was issued last November.

   The rule has many virtues. One of its most prominent advantages is that
   it focuses on prevention. For the first time, it requires employers to
     take measures to educate and train their employees on how to avoid
   ergonomic injuries. It is backed up by sound science that demonstrates
    how ergonomic injuries occur, and helps provide the means to prevent
    them. These provisions alone will help keep millions of injuries from
   occurring, sparing workers pain and suffering, and their employers lost
    productivity. In addition, workers who suffer these injuries finally
   would receive compensation while they receive treatment and, according
      to 17 state Attorneys General, this does not interfere with their
                    existing worker's compensation laws.

    I also would concede for all the virtues of this rule -- that it has
   some serious problems. It places a particularly onerous burden on small
     businesses, which may not have the resources to fulfill all of the
    rule's requirements. A better crafted rule would provide some relief
   for small businesses. The rule also is highly ambiguous with respect to
         its application to agricultural workers. While it says that
    agricultural workers are exempt from the rule, it is not at all clear
     who that includes. Are workers in nurseries, on-farm packaging and
   processing plants, or other jobs done in a farm setting covered by this
     rule? I am told by those in the agriculture community that there is
    great confusion on this question. A better crafted rule would provide
    clarity on this point. There is also confusion about how a particular
   injury may be classified as ergonomic, if there is a dispute between a
    worker and an employer. I agree with those in the business community
                who have expressed these and other concerns.

   So the rule has virtues, and it has problems. My sense is that we need
   a rule, but that the rule needs improvement. Unfortunately, the choice
     we face on this vote is not whether we should improve the rule, but
     whether there should be such a rule at all. Under the Congressional
   Review Act, we are given only one choice yea or nay on the rule. And if
    we vote to disapprove the rule, we have effectively killed any chance
   of ever providing workers with the protection they need. That's because
     once we kill it, OSHA is prohibited from ever coming forward with a
     rule that is deemed to be "substantially similar." This is a highly
    flawed process for evaluating a somewhat flawed rule. It leaves us no
     option to make recommendations on how this rule can be made better.

   Given our options, the best approach, in my view, is to vote to sustain
   the rule, and then work with the Administration to issue new guidelines
     to revise, clarify, and tighten up imperfections. I understand that
    Secretary of Labor Elaine Chao already has indicated a willingness to
    work with Congress to address ergonomic injuries. The best way for us
      to do that is by improving the existing rule, not blowing it up.

      Given the choice that we are presented with by this resolution, I
    cannot in good conscience cast a vote that will effectively eliminate
    the possibility of ever protecting workers from ergonomic injuries. I
   will vote against this resolution and, if it is defeated, I will commit
   to work with my colleagues and the Administration to correct the flaws.

                                [spacer.gif]

      [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
                                [spacer.gif]
               schedule | biography | career highlights | home
