http://www.oha.doe.gov/regs/regpett.htm

                            Payments Equal to Taxes

     (CITE AS: 56 FR 42314)

     NOTICES

     DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

     Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management

     PAYMENTS-EQUAL-TO-TAXES Provisions of the NUCLEAR WASTE Policy Act
     of 1982, as Amended; Interpretation and Procedures

     AGENCY: Department of Energy.

     ACTION: Notice of Interpretation and Procedures.

     SUMMARY: The Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Civilian
     Radioactive Waste

     Management (OCRWM), is publishing this Notice of Interpretation and
     Procedures

     (Notice) for certain of the PAYMENTS-EQUAL-TO-TAXES (PETT)
     provisions of the

     NUCLEAR WASTE Policy Act of 1982, as amended (NWPA) (42 U.S.C. 10101
     et seq.).

     This statute provides that DOE will make these payments to eligible
     States,

     affected units of local government, and affected Indian Tribes for
     activities

     related to siting, development, and operation of a high-level
     radioactive waste

     and spent-fuel repository, and any monitored retrievable storage
     (MRS)

     facility. The scope of this Notice is limited to site
     characterization

     activities related to the repository or MRS facility. Development
     and

     operational phases of the repository and MRS facility will be
     addressed at a

     later date. The jurisdictions are eligible for payments equivalent
     to the

     amount they would receive if authorized to tax the Federal site

     characterization activities at such site. This Notice incorporates
     DOE's

     response to public comments received on a Proposed Notice issued on
     March 7,

     1990. Based on comments received and after further consideration,
     DOE has

     revised its proposed interpretation and procedures by (1) modifying
     the

     proposed geographical basis for determining which site
     characterization

     activities are eligible for inclusion in PETT calculations, and (2)
     giving

     eligible jurisdictions the opportunity to provide to DOE estimates
     of PETT,

     including the basis for such calculations. DOE has the
     responsibility to

     determine the amount of PETT, based in part, on the information
     provided by the

     eligible jurisdictions. For submission of information relative to
     PETT, see

     section IV.C, Administrative Procedures, in this Notice.

     ADDRESSES: Copies of documents referred to in this Notice (unless
     otherwise

     indicated) are available for public review (they may be photocopied
     for a fee)

     at DOE Headquarters reading room, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., room
     1E-190,

     Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586-6020; Nevada Operations Office
     reading room,

     2753 S. Highland, Las Vegas, NV 89109, (702) 295-1274; and the
     Richland

     Operations Office reading room, 825 Jadwin Avenue, Richland, WA
     99352, (509)

     376-8583.

     Estimates of PETT for jurisdictions in Nevada should be sent to:
     Carl Gertz,

     Yucca Mountain Site Characterization Project Office, P.O. Box 98608,
     U.S.

     Department of Energy, Las Vegas, NV 89193, (702) 794-7920.

     Estimates of PETT for jurisdiction in Washington should be sent to:
     John

     Anttonen, Richland Operations Office, 825 Jadwin Avenue, U.S.
     Department of

     Energy, Richland, WA 98352, (509) 376-7591.

     FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:Allen Benson, Office of External
     Relations, RW-5, Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management,
     U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586-2289.

     SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

     I. Introduction

     The Department of Energy (DOE), Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste

     Management (OCRWM), today gives notice of its interpretation of
     certain of the

     PETT provisions of the NWPA, and of its general procedures for
     administering

     its responsibilities under those provisions.

     II. Background

     The NWPA assigns to the Secretary the responsibility for managing
     the disposal

     of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste, and
     establishes the

     OCRWM for that purpose. Section 116(c)(3) of the NWPA as originally
     enacted,

     authorized PETT to those States and units of general local
     governments in which

     a candidate site for a repository was approved under section 112(c)
     of the

     NWPA.

     Specifically, that language provided:

     The Secretary shall also grant to each State and unit of general
     local

     government in which a site for a repository is approved under
     section 112(c) an

     amount each fiscal year equal to the amount such State and unit of
     general

     local government, respectively, would receive were they authorized
     to tax site

     characterization activities at such site, and the development and
     operation of

     such repository, as such State and unit of general local government
     tax the

     other real property and industrial activities occurring within such
     State and

     unit of general local government. Such grants shall continue until
     such time

     as all such activities, development, and operation are terminated at
     such site.

     Section 118(b)(4) of the NWPA as originally enacted, authorized
     similar

     payments to affected Indian Tribes where a candidate site was
     approved.

     On December 22, 1987, the NUCLEAR WASTE Policy Amendments Act of
     1987 was

     signed into law as part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of
     1987 (Pub.

     L. 100-203). Amendments to the NWPA that are of relevance to the
     PETT

     provision include the following:

     1. Section 116(c)(3) was amended to designate the State of Nevada
     and affected

     units of local government as the only jurisdictions eligible for
     PETT.

     2. Section 149 was added, to extend PETT provisions under sections
     116 and 118

     to States, affected Indian Tribes, and affected units of local
     government in

     the case of a monitored retrievable storage facility in the same
     manner as for

     a repository.

     3. Section 2(31) now defines affected unit of local government as "*
     * * the

     unit of local government with jurisdiction over the site of a
     repository or a

     monitored retrievable storage facility. Such term may, at the
     discretion of

     the Secretary, include units of local government that are contiguous
     with such

     unit."

     4. It should be noted that section 118(b)(4), which applies to
     affected Indian

     Tribes, was not changed.

     DOE has determined that DOE Order 2100.12, "Payments for Special
     Burdens and

     in Lieu of Taxes," is not applicable to the implementation of PETT
     under the

     NWPA. That order focuses on the calculation of payments by
     considering any

     benefits, as well as any burdens, to the community resulting from
     the presence

     of the DOE facility. The NWPA does not provide for any reduction of
     the burden

     on the basis of other benefits to the community.

     Numerous meetings and exchanges of correspondence have occurred
     between

     DOE and the States, local governments, and Indian Tribes concerning
     PETT.

     Beginning in 1986, DOE met quarterly with the then potentially
     affected

     jurisdictions to discuss programmatic issues, including PETT. In
     addition,

     meetings with interested parties specifically to discuss PETT issues
     took place

     in Salt Lake City, Utah, in May 1987 and in Las Vegas, Nevada, in
     November

     1987.

     DOE published its Proposed Notice on March 7, 1990, for 60 days of
     public

     comment, and received comments from 10 interested parties. These
     comments are

     addressed and discussed in section III of this Notice. Consistent
     with the

     Proposed Notice and the comments received, DOE has modified its
     interpretation

     and general procedures, which are presented in section IV of this
     Notice.

     III. Discussion of Issues Raised in Comments

     In the Proposed Notice, DOE proposed to make payments equal to the
     taxes

     eligible jurisdictions would be entitled to if they were authorized
     to tax the

     federal site characterization activities occurring within the
     physical

     boundaries of the candidate sites as defined in the Environmental
     Assessments.

     The Proposed Notice described the criteria and guidance DOE would
     apply to

     determine the amount of PETT, and specified the requirements that a

     jurisdiction must meet to be eligible for PETT and the commencement
     and

     termination dates for PETT eligibility.

     The following organizations submitted comments on the Proposed
     Notice:

     The State of Nevada, Agency for Nuclear Projects, NUCLEAR WASTE
     Project Office

     The State of Washington, Office of the Governor

     Nye County, Nevada, Department of Planning

     Clark County, Nevada, Board of County Commissioners

     Esmeralda County, Nevada, Board of County Commissioners

     Lincoln County, Nevada, Board of County Commissioners

     City of Caliente, Nevada, NUCLEAR WASTE Project

     Mid-Columbia (Washington) Consortium of Governments

     The State of New Mexico, Energy, Minerals, and Natural Resources
     Department,

     Governor's Waste Isolation Pilot Plan (WIPP) Task Force

     Carlsbad, New Mexico, Department of Development

     Commenters addressed six basic issues:

     A. Notice Process.

     B. PETT Eligibility.

     C. Computation of Payments.

     D. Additional Meetings.

     E. PETT Commencement and Termination.

     F. Impact on Other Programs.

     A. Notice Process

     Commenters questioned the need for the Proposed Notice and DOE's
     proposed

     procedures for determining the amount of PETT. The State of Nevada
     claimed that

     provisions in the NWPA governing PETT are clear, and that DOE does
     not need to

     interpret them. Lincoln County, Nevada, and the City of Caliente,

     Nevada, claimed that DOE's intent to consider PETT applications on a
     case-by-

     case basis leaves in doubt the need for a notice.

     Clark County, Nevada, stated that DOE has the capability for
     determining

     whether requests are consistent with Congressional authorizing
     legislation, but

     the taxing jurisdictions have the responsibility for administering
     tax laws.

     Lincoln County, Nevada, commented that under Nevada law, it is the
     State and

     the affected units of local government that calculate tax
     liabilities,

     distribute tax bills, and collect tax revenues. The City of
     Caliente, Nevada,

     has concurred in Lincoln County's comments.

     The NWPA requires that DOE make PAYMENTS EQUAL to TAXES to eligible

     jurisdictions. These payments are not tax payments, but, are
     payments made by

     DOE pursuant to statute and therefore DOE must determine the
     appropriate amount

     of such payments. Although DOE could make such determinations on a
     case-by-

     case basis, DOE believes that the process being followed will be
     helpful in

     reaching consistent interpretations and application of the PETT
     provisions in

     the NWPA.

     B. PETT Eligibility

     This Notice addresses an affected jurisdiction's eligibility for
     PETT, but,

     does not address which units of local government contiguous to Nye
     County may

     be considered, at the discretion of the Secretary, to be "affected."
     Some

     commenters stated that DOE should reconsider its interpretation of
     which units

     of government are eligible for PETT, and what constitutes an
     affected unit of

     local government. Clark County, Nevada, and the New Mexico
     Governor's WIPP

     Task Force stated that school districts and other special purpose
     taxing

     districts should be eligible for PETT. A school district or other
     special

     purpose taxing district would be eligible to receive PETT if these
     districts

     have affected status and would have taxing authority over eligible
     site

     characterization activities, if the site characterization activities
     were not

     conducted by the Federal Government. DOE's interpretation and
     procedures allow

     for affected parties to determine which jurisdictions would have
     taxing

     authority over specific site characterization activities, if the
     site

     characterization activities were not conducted by the Federal
     Government.

     Affected parties will also determine if eligible activities should
     be

     evaluated "as a collective unit" under relevant tax law. These
     considerations,

     and all other bases used by the affected parties in computing PETT,
     will be

     considered by DOE in its determination of PETT.

     Many commenters disagreed with DOE's proposed position that only
     activities at

     the candidates site should be eligible for PETT. Several commenters
     stated that

     Congress intended to provide "full tax equivalence" for eligible
     jurisdictions,

     and that DOE's definition of site is contrary to that intent. The
     commenters

     disagreed with DOE's contention that the term "at such site" as
     stated in the

     NEPA is the same as the "candidate site" depicted in the
     Environmental

     Assessment for the three sites recommended for characterization. The
     State of

     Washington stated that the use of "site" in other contexts and
     documents such

     as the Environmental Assessments, Site Characterization Plan, and
     Mission Plan

     refers to a much broader range of activities than only those carried
     out at the

     candidate site. Commenters further claimed that DOE's narrow
     definition of

     site would exclude site characterization work done off site, which
     should also

     be included in PETT calculations.

     Section 116(c)(3)(A) of the NWPA provides, in pertinent part:

     [The] Secretary shall grant to the State of Nevada and any affected
     unit of

     local government an amount each fiscal year equal to the amount such
     State or

     affected unit or local government, respectively, would receive if
     authorized to

     tax site characterization activities at such site, and the
     development and

     operation of such repository, as such State or affected unit of
     local

     government taxes the non-Federal real property and industrial
     activities

     occurring within such State or affected unit of local government.
     (Emphasis

     added).

     In the March 7, 1990, Notice, DOE proposed to interpret "site

     characterization activities at such site" to mean those site
     characterization

     activities conducted within the area of land identified as a
     "candidate site"

     by DOE in chapter 3 of the final Environmental Assessment issued in
     May 1986.

     Upon a thorough review of this issue in light of the statements of
     commenters

     DOE now believes that a better interpretation of the subject phrase
     is that it

     means that PETT is available for site characterization activities
     associated

     with a candidate site coextensive with the jurisdiction's taxing
     authority,

     whether or not those activities are conducted on site.

     When originally enacted in 1982, section 116(c)(3)(A) provided, in
     pertinent

     part:

     The Secretary shall also grant to each State and unit of general
     local

     government in which a site for a repository is approved under
     section 112(c) an

     amount each fiscal year equal to the amount such State and unit of
     general

     local government, respectively, would receive were they authorized
     to tax site

     characterization activities at such site, and the development and
     operation of

     such repository, as such State and unit of general local government
     tax the

     other real property and industrial activities occurring within such
     State and

     unit of general local government. (Emphasis added).

     Thus the phrase "at such site" has its antecedent in the 1982 NWPA.
     DOE has

     reviewed the legislative history of the 1982 NWPA and now agrees
     that Congress

     intended that PETT provide full tax equivalence for eligible
     jurisdictions.

     For example, the United States House of Representatives, Committee
     on Interior

     and Insular Affairs report on H.R. 3809, which contained a provision
     for PETT

     similar to the provision enacted as section 116(c)(3), states as
     follows:

     Paragraph (3) requires the Secretary to grant to states where sites
     are being

     characterized or otherwise developed payment in lieu of taxes which
     would be

     paid if the project or facility were taxed like other industrial
     activities of

     the state. H. Rep. No. 97-491, Part 1, 97th Cong., 2d Sess., 56
     (1982).

     (Emphasis supplied.)

     The highlighted language speaks to the "project" and the industrial
     activities

     associated with it, and does not further imply any geographic
     specificity, such

     as the interpretation proposed by DOE in the March 7, 1990, Notice.

     In a similar vein, the report of the House Committee on Energy and
     Commerce,

     reporting on H.R. 6598, states, in connection with a provision
     identical to

     116(c)(3), that PAYMENTS EQUAL to TAXES would be made based on "site

     characterization activities and the development and operation of a
     repository,

     as such state and unit of local government taxes other real property
     and

     industrial activity." H. Rep. No. 97-785, Part 1, 97th Cong., 2d
     Sess. 73

     (1982). Again, the Report does not purport to limit the taxable
     activities to

     the site itself.

     Further evidence of Congress' intent that PETT was to be coextensive
     with the

     jurisdictions' taxing authority over industrial activities which
     would be

     subject to such authority, but for the federal government's
     immunity, is found

     in a statement by Senator J. Bennett Johnston (ranking minority
     member of the

     Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee and one of the
     sponsors of the

     legislation), at the time the NWPA was originally being considered
     for

     passage. Senator Johnston stated, in relevant part, "that a State

     should not be worse off by virtue of having one of these facilities
     in their

     State than they would be in terms of taxes, at least." See 128 Cong.
     Rec.

     S4132 (April 28, 1982).

     These excerpts from the legislative history demonstrate that
     Congress

     intended to provide a level of compensation for the affected
     jurisdictions that

     would be coextensive with the amounts the taxing jurisdictions
     otherwise could

     collect as taxes if site characterization activities were carried on
     by private

     parties. Therefore, we believe that Congress did not intend to limit
     payments

     only to those activities physically on site, but to include all
     activities

     conducted in support of site characterization, as long as the
     jurisdiction has

     taxing authority over the activities.

     C. Computation of Payments

     Six commenters stated that PETT funds should be disbursed under a
     process in

     which (1) the eligible jurisdiction would prepare a grant request,
     (2) DOE

     would review the request and make a grant based on that request, and
     (3)

     resolution of disputes, if necessary, would be carried out in the
     same manner

     as for a private entity.

     DOE's original interpretation of the PETT funding process was based
     on an

     analysis of the language of the NWPA. The payments approach outlined
     in this

     final Notice responds to the desire of eligible jurisdictions to
     participate

     actively in determining PETT, and yet still avoids the complexity of
     the grant

     administration process. The payment method also appears to offer the
     least

     complicated mechanism for transferring funds, and is consistent with
     the

     language of the NWPA. Potential recipients are requested to provide
     to DOE

     their estimate of DOE's PETT liability, and their bases for
     computing that

     amount. DOE will compute its PETT based on the information provided,
     as well

     as applicable DOE accounting directives and standards. DOE will
     document its

     analysis of this information and calculation of the PETT. Ultimate
     authority

     for determining PETT rests with DOE.

     While this payment method combines the advantages of both payment
     and grant

     processes, the comments underscored that a potential exists for
     differences

     between the PETT estimates developed by the eligible jurisdictions
     and the

     amount of the PETT calculated by DOE. Therefore, DOE has provided
     for an appeal

     process through DOE's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) for those

     jurisdictions having disputes with DOE regarding PETT. As discussed
     below in

     Section IV.D, OHA is a quasi-judicial body that reports to the
     Secretary of

     Energy. DOE chose OHA to conduct the appeals process because of its
     expertise

     in developing administrative records regarding economic issues. This
     Notice

     provides that even though an appeal might be pending, DOE may
     nevertheless make

     a preliminary payment. By accepting a payment from DOE, a
     jurisdiction will

     not waive its right to appeal the amount of the payment. The appeal
     process in

     section IV.D of this Notice is an integral part of the PETT process,
     and OHA's

     decisions will serve as the final DOE action with respect to PETT.

     D. Additional Meetings

     Four commenters either requested or indicated a willingness to
     participate in

     meetings to further discuss their views on the Proposed Notice.
     Another

     commenter encouraged DOE to sponsor a meeting with interested
     jurisdictions in

     New Mexico and potentially affected parties in Nevada. Clark County,
     Nevada,

     requested a meeting with DOE on PETT issues and invited
     representatives of the

     State of Washington and affected units of local governments in
     Nevada. A

     meeting, sponsored by Clark County, was held on August 1, 1990, for
     the purpose

     of clarifying their comments on the Proposed Notice. DOE will
     attempt to meet

     with eligible jurisdictions at any time they desire. After
     publication of this

     Notice, DOE plans to initiate meetings with eligible jurisdictions
     to discuss

     PETT.

     E. PETT Commencement and Termination

     Some commenters expressed concern about the commencement date
     specified in

     section III.C of the Proposed Notice. Clark County stated that the
     Proposed

     Notice improperly disqualifies site characterization activities that
     were

     underway before May 28, 1986. The Mid-Columbia Consortium of
     Governments (MCC)

     claimed that site characterization activities were underway at the
     Hanford site

     before it was recommended for site characterization. The commenters
     further

     argued that since no specific commencement date was mentioned in the
     NWPA,

     under the holding of Chevron, USA, Inc. v. Natural Res. Def.
     Council, 467 US

     837 (1984), a Federal agency charged with the responsibility to
     administer the

     law has the authority to fill any gaps in that law. The commenters
     added that

     DOE's interpretation must be a reasonable one, and concluded that
     establishing

     May 28, 1986, as the commencement date for PETT eligibility is
     unreasonable.

     DOE disagrees with the commenters' contention that the date for
     commencement

     of PETT eligibility, as stated in section III.C of the Proposed
     Notice, is

     unreasonable, and that it improperly disqualifies activities that
     may have

     occurred prior to May 28, 1986. DOE interprets May 28, 1986, as the
     starting

     date of site characterization for the purposes of calculating PETT
     because that

     was the date on which the President approved sites in Nevada, Texas,
     and

     Washington as candidate sites for site characterization.
     Simultaneously, the

     President rejected the other first repository States as candidate
     sites for

     site characterization, and their eligibility for PETT never matured.
     (However,

     because some activities related to site characterization carried out
     in Nevada

     and Washington prior to May 28, 1986, may have resulted in
     improvement to real

     estate for purposes of assessment valuation, PETT may be available
     for the

     resulting increase in real estate value.)

     The State of Washington and the MCC noted that the NWPA does not
     specify a

     date for PETT to begin, and suggested that PETT eligibility started
     from the

     beginning of site characterization activities, or the date on which
     Congress

     enacted the NWPA for ongoing site characterization activities. The
     commenter

     added that the definition of "site characterization" in section
     2(21) of the

     NWPA necessarily implies that some site characterization activities
     (e.g.,

     activities undertaken to establish the parameters of the site) must
     occur

     before the "site" was designated as a site and thus should be
     eligible for

     PETT. The commenter concluded that Congress foresaw and approved
     ongoing site

     characterization as of the date of enactment of the NWPA.

     DOE disagrees with the comment that section 2(21) of the NWPA
     implies some

     site characterization activities must occur prior to the site being
     designated

     as a candidate site. Section 2(21) of the NWPA defines site
     characterization

     as (a) siting research activities with respect to a test and
     evaluation

     facility at a candidate site, and (b) activities, whether in the
     laboratory or

     in the field, undertaken to establish the geologic condition and the
     ranges of

     the parameters of a candidate site relevant to the location of a
     repository,

     etc. Although various laboratory and field activities may have been
     underway

     at the sites prior to the May 28, 1986, date, these activities were
     neither

     related to a test and evaluation facility nor were they undertaken
     to establish

     the geologic condition or the ranges of the parameters relevant to

     the location of a repository. Even if some of the data collected
     before the

     May 28, 1986, date were relevant to the overall characterization of
     the site,

     that fact alone would not qualify the data collection process as
     "site

     characterization" for purposes of the NWPA.

     One commenter stated that the grants for Nye County, Nevada, and

     Washington State should include interest since May 28, 1986, when
     the sites

     were formally designated for characterization. DOE reiterates its
     intention,

     as stated in the Proposed Notice, that "[l]ate payments, for initial
     and

     subsequent payments shall include interest in accordance with the
     applicable

     requirements of the taxing jurisdiction."

     F. Impact on Other Programs

     Two commenters from the State of New Mexico noted that land
     withdrawal

     legislation for the WIPP site then pending before Congress provided
     for

     payments equivalent to taxes on the WIPP site, and they expressed
     concern about

     the potential impact of the Proposed Notice on the land withdrawal

     legislation. The Carlsbad Department of Development observed that
     provisions

     of the NWPA have been increasingly applied to WIPP legislative land
     withdrawal

     proposals. The proposed interpretation of limiting PETT to
     activities "at such

     site" has the potential effect of eliminating (from the proposed
     WIPP payments-

     equivalent-to-taxes) all activities outside the WIPP site, such as
     offices in

     Carlsbad and the TRUPAK manufacturing facility. The WIPP Task Force
     expressed

     concern that DOE's action may establish an "onerous" precedent with
     respect to

     the interpretation and implementation of proposed WIPP
     payments-equivalent-to-

     taxes provisions for the WIPP site in New Mexico.

     Without a WIPP legislative land withdrawal, it is impossible even to
     speculate

     on whether DOE would be construing similar or dissimilar statutory

     requirements.

     IV. PETT Interpretation and Procedures

     A. PETT Eligibility

     The existence of site characterization activities occurring within a

     particular jurisdiction does not in itself create an entitlement to
     PETT. A

     right to PETT arises when DOE conducts activities at the site for
     which the

     States, affected Indian Tribes and affected units of local
     government would

     otherwise be authorized to impose taxes. An affected unit of local
     government

     is defined in section 2(31) of the NWPA. Moreover, the NWPA
     authorizes DOE to

     make payment only in an amount that is equal to that which private
     entities

     would be required to pay in taxes. Taxes refer to any existing
     authorities to

     levy taxes on real property and industrial or commercial activities.
     Thus,

     PETT is (1) contingent upon the taxing jurisdiction having the
     requisite taxing

     authority; and (2) limited in amount by the equivalency provision.

     Accordingly, the general requirements for a jurisdiction to be
     eligible to

     receive PETT for site characterization activities are interpreted by
     DOE as

     follows:

     1. (a) For the period May 28, 1986, to December 22, 1987,
     jurisdictions in,

     and the States of Nevada, Texas, and Washington may be eligible for
     PETT;

     (however, there were no Federal site characterization activities
     conducted in

     Texas);

     (b) After December 22, 1987, the State of Nevada, any affected unit
     of local

     government, and affected Indian Tribes may be eligible for PETT;

     2. The jurisdiction must have the requisite taxing authority; and

     3. The jurisdiction must levy taxes applicable to non-Federal
     activities that

     are similar to the site characterization activities conducted by the
     Federal

     Government.

     The NWPA provides for eligible jurisdictions (defined in section
     IV.A above)

     to receive payments equal to the amount they "would receive if
     authorized to

     tax site characterization activities at such site * * *." The NWPA
     defines site

     characterization as:

     1. Siting research activities with respect to a test and evaluation
     facility

     at a candidate site.

     2. Activities, whether the laboratory or in the field, undertaken to
     establish

     the geologic condition and the ranges of the parameters of a
     candidate site

     relevant to the location of a repository, including borings, surface

     excavations, excavations of exploratory shafts, limited subsurface
     lateral

     excavations and borings, and in situ testing needed to evaluate the
     suitability

     of a candidate site for the location of a repository, but not
     including

     preliminary borings and geophysical testing needed to assess whether
     site

     characterization should be undertaken.

     By this definition, activities undertaken by DOE to evaluate the
     geologic

     suitability of the site that an eligible jurisdiction is authorized
     to tax if

     it were undertaken by a taxpaying entity may be considered in the
     calculation

     of PETT. These activities may include, but are not limited to, the
     following:

     1. Activities that impact the assessed value of real property.

     2. Activities carried out prior to May 28, 1986, but only to the
     extent that

     the residual value of these activities after May 28, 1986, are
     treated as

     improvements to real property, used in support of site
     characterization for

     purposes of assessment valuation.

     3. Ownership or possessory use of personal property.

     4. Purchase or transfer of personal property acquired in one State
     for use in

     an eligible State.

     5. Use of motor vehicles.

     6. Use of special fuels.

     7. Payment of salaries to Federal employees.

     8. Activities subject to business or income taxes.

     Government contractor activities are not eligible for PETT, and are
     not within

     the scope of this Notice.

     B. Computation of Payments

     Under the Supremacy Clause of the Constitution of the United States,
     States,

     local jurisdictions and Indian Tribes cannot tax Federal property or
     activities

     unless a waiver of sovereign immunity has been granted. The NWPA
     does not

     provide such a waiver, but, rather requires DOE to grant to eligible

     jurisdictions payments equal to the amounts they would receive if
     DOE's

     activities were not tax-exempt.

     DOE anticipates that taxes normally levied against real property and

     industrial or commercial activities by eligible jurisdictions for
     general

     purposes and under a general taxing authority will be relevant for

     consideration in determining PETT liability. Federal site
     characterization

     activities that might qualify for PETT are outlined in section IV.A
     above.

     DOE will be guided by the following considerations in its evaluation
     of

     PETT liability to a jurisdiction:

     1. DOE's Accounting Directives (2200.xx Series), as supplemented by
     generally

     accepted accounting principles, will guide the recordkeeping for
     PETT. Copies

     of these documents will be available for examination in Washington,
     DC, by

     contacting the Office of Financial Policy, CR-20, U.S. Department of
     Energy,

     1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586-4860;
     at the

     Nevada Operations Office, by contacting the Director, Financial
     Management

     Division, Nevada Operations Office, 2753 S. Highland, Las Vegas, NV
     89109,

     (702) 295-1061; and at the Richland Operations Office, by contacting
     the

     Director, Financial Resources Division, Richland Operations Office,

     825 Jadwin Avenue, Richland, WA 99352, (509) 376-8669.

     2. To be eligible for PETT, a jurisdiction's tax must be
     constitutionally

     valid.

     3. Since the tax structures and practices of eligible jurisdictions
     will be

     applied in the computation of PETT, it is necessary to identify for
     each

     relevant tax:

     a. Types of property and value measurements used to determine the
     taxable

     basis.

     b. Rates and/or classes of rates applicable to the taxable basis.

     c. Exemptions and limits.

     d. Scope of applicability.

     e. Specific agent(s) of the taxing authority to whom payments and
     inquiries

     should be addressed.

     f. Types of activities.

     C. Administrative Procedures

     For the period beginning May 28, 1986 through calendar year 1990,
     eligible

     jurisdictions should submit an estimated PETT to DOE within 120 days
     after

     publication of this Notice. For years subsequent to calendar year
     1990,

     eligible jurisdictions should submit an estimated PETT to DOE within
     120 days

     after the end of their fiscal year. The estimated PETT analysis
     should include

     the following:

     1. Basis for eligibility showing how the jurisdiction meets the
     requirement

     for eligibility as set forth in this Notice.

     2. Citations of relevant tax rules, regulations, rates, and bases
     for applying

     the rates.

     3. Lists of Federal site characterization activities considered in
     estimating

     the PETT.

     4. Calculations supporting the estimates in sufficient detail to
     allow DOE to

     verify the estimates.

     5. Estimate of PETT liability for each tax type to which DOE's site

     characterization activities are subject and estimates of PETT
     liability for

     each tax type in accordance with the appropriate tax laws.

     DOE will review these analyses to verify that they are complete and
     correct

     regarding:

     1. DOE's site characterization activities.

     2. The assessed value of DOE's property used to support its site

     characterization activities.

     3. DOE's operational activities subject to tax.

     4. The tax laws of the eligible jurisdiction.

     In evaluating the analyses, DOE may confer with representatives of
     eligible

     jurisdictions to obtain clarification and additional information, as

     necessary. Additionally, DOE may request input from independent
     experts

     concerning valuation of property, tax calculations, record-keeping,
     and other

     technical issues arising from the PETT procedures.

     The PETT disbursement mechanism will be tailored, to the maximum
     extent

     possible, to accommodate the payment procedures and schedules of the
     eligible

     jurisdictions. Late payments shall include interest, if appropriate,
     in

     accordance with applicable requirements of the taxing jurisdictions.

     Should an eligible jurisdiction choose not to submit the information
     requested

     above within 120 days after publication of this Notice, then DOE
     will perform

     the calculations to determine the PETT to that jurisdiction without
     the

     submittal. Once DOE has completed its analysis, it will make payment
     to the

     eligible jurisdiction. Documentation that presents DOE's analysis
     will

     accompany PETT. For subsequent years, should eligible jurisdictions
     choose not

     to submit their analysis, PETT estimate, and supporting
     documentation to DOE

     within 120 days of the end of the eligible jurisdiction's fiscal
     year, then DOE

     will perform the calculations necessary to determine the PETT to
     that

     jurisdiction without the submittal. Information submitted after the
     120-day

     period will be considered to the extent practicable.

     A record of the discussions between DOE and eligible jurisdictions
     will be

     maintained sufficient to establish the positions of all parties.
     These

     discussions will address:

     1. Reporting procedures for DOE and eligible jurisdictions.

     2. Specific PETT application procedures.

     3. Channels and methods of communication.

     4. Individuals and offices responsible for PETT within eligible
     jurisdictions.

     5. Processes for estimating PETT.

     6. Disbursement mechanisms.

     D. Appeals Process

     An appeals process is available for those jurisdictions which are
     challenging

     the original DOE determination related to PETT. Appeals may be filed
     with the

     Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA), U.S. Department of Energy,
     1000

     Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585. The appeal must be
     filed within

     45 days from the date of issuance of an original DOE determination
     related to

     PETT. Appeals will be governed by procedures set forth in 10 CFR
     part 205

     subpart H.

     The OHA is a quasi-judicial body that reports to the Secretary of
     Energy and,

     except as otherwise provided by law, is responsible for conducting
     the

     adjudicative proceedings of DOE other than those which are subject
     to the

     jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission or the
     Board of

     Contract Appeals. In connection with these duties, OHA holds
     hearings,

     receives evidence, develops the record, and issues the final
     determination of

     DOE, which is subject to review in the Federal courts.

     E. PETT Commencement and Termination

     May 28, 1986, the date the President approved sites in Nevada,
     Texas, and

     Washington as candidate sites for site characterization, is the date
     of

     commencement for PETT eligibility. Some activities related to site

     characterization carried out before May 28, 1986, may be included,
     but only to

     the extent that the residual value of those activities is treated as
     an

     improvement to real estate for purposes of assessment valuation.
     December 22,

     1987, the date on which the NWPA was amended to terminate site
     characterization

     activities at the Texas and Washington sites, is the date of
     termination for

     their PETT eligibility. None of the possible bases for PETT, for
     activities

     subsequent to site characterization, i.e., the development and
     operation of a

     repository, specified in the NWPA are applicable to the Texas and
     Washington

     sites. No such development and operation activities were undertaken
     at the

     Texas and Washington sites. The State of Nevada continues to be
     eligible to

     receive PETT.

     F. Federalism Impacts

     Executive Order (E.O.) 12612, 52 FR 41685 (October 30, 1987),
     requires that

     regulations, rules, legislation, and any other policy actions be
     reviewed for

     any substantial direct effects on States, and on the distribution of
     power and

     responsibilities among various levels of government. If there are
     sufficient

     substantial direct effects, E.O. 12612 requires preparation of a
     federalism

     assessment to be used in all decisions involved in promulgating and

     implementing a rule or a policy of action. DOE has concluded that
     there are

     not sufficient substantial direct effects to require preparation of
     a

     federalism assessment.

     G. Review Under Executive Order 12291

     DOE reviewed this Notice under Executive Order 12291, and concluded
     that it

     did not involve a "major rule." DOE submitted the Notice to the
     Office of

     Management and Budget (OMB) under that Executive Order. OMB has
     completed its

     review.

     Issued in Washington, DC August 20, 1991.

     John W. Bartlett,

     Director, Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management.
