http://www.dcb.uscourts.gov/ebn.pdf

   Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing, or EBN,
   « Fax For recipients who do not want to minated and mailed copies will
   be sent. set up Internet e-mail accounts but who refers to a group of
   electronic services Recipients must contact the court's EBN want to
   eliminate slower noticing by U.S. coordinator or the BNC to resolve the
   is- available from the Bankruptcy Noticing mail. sue and have
   electronic service reinstated. Center that federal bankruptcy courts
   can « Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) For use to send bankruptcy
   notices to attor- «The BNC is not responsible for notices that
   high-volume recipients (200 or more no- are acknowledged but are
   incorrectly neys, creditors, and trustees. For notice tices a week) who
   want to process data deleted by the recipient or the recipient s
   recipients, this means faster delivery. through computer-to-computer
   transfers. e-mail service provider. Staff of the Administrative Office
   of the «Not all notices in a case are processed U.S. Courts manage the
   BNC contract and How E-mail Noticing through the BNC. Those notices
   from Works work with federal bankruptcy court advisers trustees,
   attorneys, and debtors, and some court-generated notices or orders will
   con- to enhance noticing services and implement E-mail service will
   start approximately two tinue to arrive by mail. new programs. weeks
   after a completed noticing agreement is returned. A separate agreement
   is required E-Mail Format for each court jurisdiction. To confirm an
   E-mail recipients can select one of the Requesting EBN Service e-mail
   account is working properly, the BNC following options for PDF file
   attachments: will run a test transmission. Bankruptcy Rule 9036, which
   authorizes During the first 30 days of service, the BNC «An e-mail that
   has a single PDF file attach- electronic noticing, requires
   participants to will send notices both electronically and by ment
   containing multiple notices. sign an agreement with each bankruptcy
   U.S. mail to further confirm that the process court. «A single e-mail
   for each notice, with one is working smoothly. After 30 days, notices
   Creditors can sign-up from among three PDF file attachment per e-mail.
   will be sent by e-mail only. methods to receive electronic noticing:
   The BNC transmits e-mail notices each «An e-mail that has multiple PDF
   file «Internet e-mail For recipients who want evening and follows these
   guidelines: attachments (up to 25), each attachment the speed and
   convenience of receiving containing one notice. notices on-line. The
   BNC sends PDF file «A record confirming delivery of electronic
   attachments by e-mail to creditors. Users notices is kept and, if
   receipt is not con- The BNC organizes e-mail notices in a stan- must
   have an account with an e-mail firmed, notices will be printed and
   mailed dard format: provider that has electronic delivery the next day.
   service notification capability and have «A subject header contains a
   BNC serial Adobe s free Acrobat Reader Version 4.0 «If electronic
   delivery is unsuccessful three number and the creditor's ID number. The
   or higher installed on their system. consecutive times, the service
   will be ter- serial number increases each time a mes- sage is sent so
   creditors can determine that all e-mails have been received. «One text
   block describes the number of F O R M O R E notices and total notice
   pages in the PDF attachment. I N F O R M A T I O N «Another text block
   shows the name and address of the recipient, case number, C O N T A C T
   Electronic court form code, and originating court for each notice
   contained in the PDF file attachment. Bankruptcy Bankruptcy Noticing
   Center Help Line «PDF files are not compressed or zipped.
   1-877-837-3424 The BNC compares names and addresses Noticing listed on
   the noticing agreements with Web Page the names and addresses debtors
   list on their petitions or an attorney s name www.EBNuscourts.com and
   address in the court s database. The BNC software matches names and
   addresses and sends the notices electronically. For more details and
   examples, see the Imple- mentation Guide on the EBN web page
   (www.EBNuscourts.com). If recipient names and addresses in the court's
   notice instructions do not match those on the noticing agreement,
   notices will be sent by U.S. mail. EBN Fax Noticing James Robby
   Robinson Fax noticing is an option many creditors EBN Project Manager
   SAVES may want to explore. The Fax noticing pro- Administrative Office
   of the U.S. Courts cess works like e-mail except the notices are
   Washington, D.C. 20544 sent to a Fax machine. (202) 502-1540 TIME!
