http://www.publicaffairs.noaa.gov/back.html


   NOAA Banner
   Click here for NOAA home page.

   Click here for site map.

   Click here for contacts page.

   Click here to search this site.

   NOAA Backgrounders

   spacer

   To view the backgrounders in Portable Document Format (PDF) you'll need
   to download Adobe Acrobat Reader.


   arrow A Word About NOAA The National Oceanic and Atmospheric
         Administration (NOAA) conducts research and gathers data about the
         global oceans, atmosphere, space, and sun, and applies this knowledge
         to science and service that touch the lives of all Americans.
   arrow NOAA History In a July 1970 statement to Congress, President
         Nixon proposed creating NOAA to serve a national need "...for better
         protection of life and property from natural hazards...for a better
         understanding of the total environment...[and] for exploration and
         development leading to the intelligent use of our marine resources..."
         On October 3, NOAA was established under the Department of Commerce.
   arrow National Weather Service The National Weather Service is the
         primary source of weather data, forecasts and warnings for the United
         States. Television weathercasters and private meteorology companies
         prepare their forecasts using this information. The NWS is the sole
         United States official voice for issuing warnings during
         life-threatening weather situations. (PDF)
   arrow National Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service
         NESDIS manages the U.S. civil operational remote-sensing satellite
         systems, as well as global data bases for meteorology, oceanography,
         solid-earth geophysics, and solar-terrestrial sciences. (PDF)
   arrow NOAA Fisheries NOAA's National Marine Fisheries Service is the
         federal agency responsible for the stewardship of the nation's living
         marine resources and their habitat. (PDF)
   arrow National Ocean Service The coastal environment is one of our
         nation's most valuable assets. It provides food for people and
         essential habitat for thousands of species of marine animals and
         plants. A healthy coast is vital to the U.S. economy. Industries such
         as marine transportation, fishing, tourism and recreation, and
         homebuilding all depend on a vibrant coastal environment. (PDF)
   arrow NOAA Research NOAA's research, conducted through the Office of
         Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR), is the driving force behind
         NOAA environmental products and services that protect life and property
         and promote sustainable economic growth. (PDF)
   arrow Office of Marine and Aviation Operations Since NOAA's beginning,
         much of its oceanographic, atmospheric, hydrographic, fisheries and
         coastal data have been collected on NOAA ships and aircraft. These
         flexible, multipurpose platforms support a wide range of activities
         related to weather forecasting and prediction, public safety,
         navigation and trade, natural resource management and environmental
         protection. (PDF)

   Weather


   arrow NOAA Weather Radio: For Anytime Severe Weather Strikes During the
         May 3, 1999 tornado outbreak in Oklahoma and Kansas, a supervisor at
         Norland Plastics in Haysville, Kansas saved more than 100 lives by
         responding to official National Weather Service warnings heard on the
         plants NOAA Weather Radio. (PDF)
   arrow Avoiding the Risks of Deadly Lightning Strikes Lightning is one
         of the most underrated severe weather hazards, yet ranks as the
         second-leading weather killer in the United States. More deadly than
         hurricanes or tornadoes, lightning strikes in America each year kill an
         average of 73 people and injure 300 others, according to NOAA's
         National Weather Service. (PDF)
   arrow NWS Aviation Weather Forecasting Critical To Air Flight Safety To
         fly or not to fly? That is the question pilots and air traffic
         controllers answer thousands of times each month. In recent years, a
         record number of commercial flights crisscrossed the American skies,
         and the travel industry expects the numbers to increase. The latest
         weather forecast is crucial in making the right decisions about whether
         to fly, or land. (PDF)
   arrow EMWIN: High-Tech Readiness For Stormy Weather The National
         Weather Service (NWS) and Americas emergency managers continue to
         strengthen their partnership to help protect lives and property faced
         by the threat of severe weather. One shining example of this alliance
         is The Emergency Managers Weather Information Network (EMWIN), a system
         that transmits live weather information to computers across the U.S.,
         the Caribbean and over most of the Pacific Ocean. (PDF)
   arrow Forecasting Tornadoes Through a tremendous investment in
         research, observing systems such as the WSR88D Doppler radar, and
         forecasting technology, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
         Administration's National Weather Service issues more than 15,000
         severe storm and tornado watches and warnings each year. The average
         lead time for warnings has increased from six to 12 minutes from 1994
         to 2001. (PDF)
   arrow When Seconds Count, StormReady Communities Are Prepared To help
         Americans guard against the ravages of severe weather, NOAA's National
         Weather Service has designed StormReady, a program aimed at preparing
         cities, counties and towns across the nation with the communication and
         safety tools necessary to save lives and property. (PDF)

   Hurricanes


   arrow Hurricane Tracking Models: Helping to Forecast Severe Storms The
         National Hurricane Center's mission is to track tropical cyclones and
         predict their future position and intensity over the north Atlantic
         Ocean, Caribbean Sea, Gulf of Mexico and eastern North Pacific Ocean.
         (PDF)
   arrow The Retirement of Hurricane Names Hurricanes that have a severe
         impact on lives or the economy are remembered generations after the
         devastation they caused, and some go into weather history. The National
         Hurricane Center near Miami, Florida, monitors tropical disturbances in
         the Atlantic and eastern Pacific Oceans which could become a hurricane.
         (PDF)
   arrow Hurricane HugoAn Eyewitness Account George Metts is a paramedic
         who was assigned to the Lincoln High School in McClellanville, S.C.,
         the evening of Thursday, September 21, 1989the night that Hurricane
         Hugo struck the South Carolina coast. (PDF)

   Ocean


   arrow NOAA and Tsunamis A tsunami is a series of ocean waves generated
         by any rapid large-scale disturbance of the sea water. Most tsunamis
         are generated by earthquakes, but they may also be caused by volcanic
         eruptions, landslides, undersea slumps, or meteor impacts. (PDF)
   arrow NOAA Diving Program As an agency whose mission encompasses ocean
         and coastal research, one of NOAA's greatest assets is the NOAA Diving
         Program, headquartered at the NOAA Dive Center in Seattle, Washington.
         (PDF)
   arrow NOAA's Teacher at Sea Program The enthusiasm for learning
         generated between teachers and students is the biggest payoff of NOAA's
         Teacher at Sea program, where teachers from elementary school through
         college go to sea aboard NOAA research and survey ships to work under
         the tutelage of scientists and crew. (PDF)

   Satellites


   arrow NOAA's Environmental Satellites Operating the country's system of
   environmental satellites is one of the major responsibilities of the
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. NOAA's National
   Environmental Satellite, Data, and Information Service (NESDIS)
   operates the satellites and manages the processing and distribution of
   the millions of bits of data and images these satellites produce daily.
   (PDF)
   arrow The National Polar-orbiting Operational Environmental Satellite
   System (NPOESS) On May 5, 1994, a landmark decision was made to merge
   the nation's military and civil operational meteorological satellite
   systems into a single, national system capable of satisfying both civil
   and national security requirements for space-based remotely sensed
   environmental data.
   arrow NOAA and Volcanic Ash Ash plumes that are ejected from volcanoes
   into the atmosphere pose costly and potentially deadly dangers to
   aircraft flying through them. Accidentally flying through an ash cloud
   is sufficient to severely damage critical aircraft components including
   lift surfaces, wind screens and engines.

   Ships and Aircraft

   arrow NOAAs Hydrographic Survey Ships Aid the Nation During Disaster
         Recovery Efforts The downing of TWA Flight 800 into the Atlantic Ocean
         off Long Island, N.Y., in July 1996 was the first of three national air
         disasters in recent years that called for the special expertise of
         NOAAs hydrographic survey vessels. It was the NOAA ship Rude that
         scanned the ocean floor and found the primary wreckage fields of the
         aircraft. (PDF)
   arrow NOAAs Hurricane Hunter Aircraft Specially equipped NOAA aircraft
         play an integral role in hurricane forecasting. Data collected during
         hurricanes by these high-flying meteorological stations and from a
         variety of other sources are fed into numerical computer models to help
         forecasters predict how intense a hurricane will be, and when and where
         it will make landfall. (PDF)
   arrow The GULFSTREAM- IV: NOAAS High-Flying Meteorological Platform
         NOAAs Gulfstream-IV jet is the agencys newest high-flying, high-tech
         platform in its hurricane forecasting arsenal. The jet flies around
         developing hurricanes to create a detailed picture of the surrounding
         upper atmosphere; the data it collects enable forecasters to improve
         hurricane track and landfall predictions by up to 20 percent. (PDF)
   arrow NOAA's "Hurricane Hunter" Aircraft Fly Through Pacific Winter
         Storms and More NOAA's "hurricane hunter" aircraft and their crews may
         be best known for their prowess in flying through and around nature's
         severest storms over the Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean Sea and Gulf of
         Mexico. However, these flying meteorological stations prove their
         mettle on the West Coast and over the Pacific Ocean as wellafter
         hurricane season has ended and severe Pacific winter storms have begun.
         (PDF)
   arrow The Shrike Commander: NOAA's World Class Snow Survey Platform
         Each year, significant runoff from snow melt can cause
         floodingsometimes severeof streams and rivers. Knowing snow water
         equivalentsor the water content of snowpackin a given region is
         essential for timely, hydrologic forecasting. (PDF)
   arrow NOAA Ship RONALD H. BROWN: Unique in the U.S. Civilian Fleet
         Commissioned into the NOAA fleet on July 19, 1997, the RONALD H. BROWN
         brings new and unique capabilities to the nation's environmental
         science community. The ship is designed to conduct multidisciplinary
         scientific operations throughout the world's oceans. (PDF)
   arrow MD 500D Helicopter: NOAAs Ship- Based Aerial Photography Platform
         NOAAs MD 500D helicopter is the smallest aircraft in the agencys
         research fleet. It serves as an outstanding platform for observation
         and aerial photography for several of NOAAs diverse environmental
         science missions. (PDF)
   arrow New Fisheries Scientific Computer System Revolutionizes Data
         Collection NOAA software engineers and scientists have developed a
         breakthrough, automated system for recording biological and
         oceanographic data during a trawl- based fishery resources survey. The
         Fisheries Scientific Computer System, or FSCS, is replacing manual data
         recording and shaving months off the time required to make cruise data
         available for use. (PDF)

                                   spacer

   spacer

     * NOAA Magazine
     * NOAA Public Affairs
     * News Releases
     * Photos Online
     * NOAA Central Library
     * NOAA News Story Archive

   line
   More Links
   line
   spacer

     * El Niño
     * La Niña
     * Space Weather
     * Storm Watch
     * Tornadoes
     * Weather Page

                        Click here for NOAA home page

   spacer

   line

   Publication of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
   Last Updated: 1/10/02

   spacer
