http://www-sage3.larc.nasa.gov/introduction/

   SAGE III Masthead Skip to content NASA Langley Research Center

   home introduction science Meteor mission ISS mission instrument
   outreach library data distribution
   Masthead shadow

                                Introduction


   Since the 1950's, it has become increasingly clear that human
   activities are modifying the composition of the atmosphere on a global
   scale. As the result of industrialization, the concentration of carbon
   dioxide has increased by about 20% during this period. (reference:
   Carbon Dioxide Information Analysis Center)

   More recently, the stratospheric concentrations of chemically-active
   gases containing chlorine, bromine, and fluorine have dramatically
   increased (reference: World Climate Research Program).

   These trends have created issues of global interest including global
   warming and declining levels of ozone (both globally and in the ozone
   "hole" in the Antarctic). It has become increasingly clear, however,
   that these processes do not occur independently of one another and can
   only be understood in the context of a global system.

   As a result, in 1991 NASA initiated a comprehensive program to
   understand the Earth's atmosphere, oceans, land, and cryosphere (ice
   and snow) as a single, complex, interactive system.

   NASA's Earth Observing System (EOS) consists of a series of spaceborne
   instruments to monitor crucial components of the Earth system, an
   advanced data handling system, and teams of scientists who will
   evaluate on-going climate change and predict future changes.

   Ultimately, EOS will produce scientifically sound recommendations for
   environmental policy to national and international bodies to mitigate
   or prepare for these changes.

   SAGE III's role in the EOS program is to provide global, long-term
   measurements of key components of the Earth's atmosphere. The most
   important of these are the vertical distribution of aerosols and ozone
   from the upper troposphere through the stratosphere.

   In addition, SAGE III also provides unique measurements of temperature
   in the stratosphere and mesosphere and profiles of trace gases such as
   water vapor and nitrogen dioxide that play significant roles in
   atmospheric radiative and chemical processes.

   The SAGE III Science Team functions in a dual role where they ensure
   the data quality and interpret the SAGE III data in the broader context
   of global change.

   For more information...
   NASA Earth Science Enterprise NASA's Earth Science Enterprise
   United States Global Change Research Program United States Global
   Change Research Program
   Aerosol Variability: SAGE II Aerosol Variability: SAGE II
                              _________________

      NASA Langley Research Center - Radiation and Aerosols Branch
      Responsible NASA Official: Dr. Larry W. Thomason, Radiation and
      Aerosols Branch
      Document Curator: Daniel C. Mangosing, Jr., SAIC
      NASA Privacy Statement
