http://fire.pppl.gov/rubbia_iaea_2000.pdf

   THE FUTURE OF ENERGY Carlo Rubbia ENEA Opening remarks at the 18th IAEA
   Fusion Energy Conference Sorrento, Italy, 4th October 2000 2 TABLE OF
   CONTENT 1.- Energy is necessary.
   .......................................................................
   .............. 3 2.- Energies for the future.
   .......................................................................
   ......... 5 3.- How much energy from the Sun ?
   ............................................................. 6 4.-
   Conventional nuclear power.
   ..................................................................... 8
   5.- A Renovated Nuclear
   Scenario...............................................................
   .. 11 6.- The energy
   carriers...............................................................
   ...................... 13 7.- Conclusions.
   .......................................................................
   ......................... 15 8.-
   Figures................................................................
   .......................................... 17 3 1.- Energy is
   necessary. The interest of politicians, businessmen, technologists,
   scientists and the people at large is focused today on the problem of
   energy. Everybody will agree on the fact that "Energy is necessary" for
   the future of mankind. But many tend to paraphrase it by saying that
   "Energy is a necessary evil". No objection to the necessity: but an
   analysis of the motivations for regarding energy as "evil" reveals some
   Freudian undertones. This rejection of the technology, as solution to
   the rising environmental concerns, perceived as a Faustian deal, after
   centuries of a passionate technical endeavour deeply engraved in our
   conception of the world, is a curious phenomenon to say the least. All
   these problems and the associated concerns are serious: the inevitable
   growth of energy consumption under the sheer momentum of the system and
   the very human expectations of the poor, may indeed add enough yeast to
   make them leaven beyond control. However, like in the case of famine,
   illness etc., also here Science and Technology should be trusted;
   indeed there are reasonable expectations that, combined, they will have
   the possibility of solving also this problem, in full accord with the
   economic, dynamic and technical constraints that a working system has
   to comply with. That energy supply has been a major element of our
   civilisation may be evidenced in Figure 1 (R.A. Knief, 1992) where the
   approximate energy pro capita from the beginning of mankind as a
   function of time is shown. Energy for food gathering has been
   supplemented by that for household use (initially heating), organised
   agriculture, industry and transportation. Hay for working horses1 is
   included, the equivalent of diesel for trucks and tractors today. One
   can see that the total energy consumption for the most advanced part of
   mankind has grown about 100 fold from the beginning of history,
   reaching today the level of about 0.9 GJ/day/person. This corresponds
   to the equivalent of burning 32 kg of Coal/day/person, or a continuous,
   averaged supply of 10.4 kWatt/person. As a reference the food energy
   supply of 3000 kcal/day corresponds to a thermal continuous power
   supply of 0.14 kWatt/person. Hence the energetic food supply represents
   a mere 1% of the total energy need of each of us. 1 Still in 1899, in
   the USA about two thirds of the mechanical energy actually came from
   horses. 4 The direct total energy production of the planet, evidently a
   fraction of the above, mostly coming from fossil fuels, represents an
   average, power production in excess of 10 TWatt. As a comparison, the
   geological heat from the earth's crust due to natural Uranium and
   Thorium decays is about 16 TWatt. Incidentally this represents the
   totality of geothermal stationary energy. Hence mankind has roughly
   doubled the internal energy generation of the planet. The portion of
   the earth's kinetic energy transformed into lunar and solar tides in
   the hydrosphere is an averaged power of 3.49 TWatt. There is not much
   power to harness out of the tides of the sea ! Over the last 150 years,
   the energy consumption of the planet has steadily increased at the rate
   of 2.3 %/year (Figure 2). There is no doubt that the world's
   consumption will continue to grow in the future, since the world's
   population is steadily growing and billions of people in the Developing
   Countries strive for a better life. The present, enormous disparity in
   energy consumption (Sweden's 15'000 kWatt h of electricity/person/year,
   Tanzania's 100 kWatt h/p/y) will tend to converge. There is also no
   doubt that energy will have to be produced and used in a more efficient
   way: but this is a necessary but not sufficient condition for a
   stabilisation of the energy consumption. We will undoubtedly get more
   mileage out of a litre of petrol, but there will be more cars, light
   bulbs will have a better efficiency but there will be more light bulbs,
   etc. We shall witness a better efficiency, but also a strong increase
   of energy consumption. We know that the so-called energy intensity,
   i.e. kWatt h for dollar earned is roughly a constant, slowly varying
   with social conditions and time. The world's economic forecast is of a
   GNP growth of about 2%/year. It is not an accident that this is roughly
   also the expected energy growth planet-wide. Such a large consumption
   raises obvious questions of the longevity of (fossil) resources. There
   is no doubt that in order to sustain the pace of growth of our
   civilisation, some new massive energy sources will be needed in the
   long run (Figure 3) . The longevity of the survival of the necessarily
   limited fossil's era will be affected at one hand by the discovery of
   new, exploitable resources, strongly 5 dependent on the price and the
   other hand by the growth of the world's population and of their
   standard of living. It is generally expected that the world's
   population will grow to a level of the order of 1010 people by about
   the end of the century and remain stable after that. Assuming then an
   average energy consumption equal to the average European value of 3
   Tep/y, we find that asymptotically - I would add roughly by the time
   fusion will be deployed - the need for an averaged, total world's power
   production of the order of 39 TWatt, or about three times the present
   level. (Incidentally an exponential growth at +2.3 %/y as evidenced in
   Figure 2 would lead to this value in 55 years). At the present
   consumption level, known reserves for coal, oil and gas correspond to
   duration of the order of 230, 45 and 63 years (Figure 3). Natural
   uranium, used as at present ( 235U, MOX will not help much) has known
   reserves for 54 years. These number will be affected positively on one
   hand by the discovery of new reserves, and negatively on the other by
   the increased consumption. Even if these factors are hard to assess,
   taking into account the long lead time for the development of new
   energy sources, the end of the fossil era is at sight. And what after
   that ? (Figure 4) 2.- Energies for the future. Very many individuals,
   committees, working groups etc. have exercised their forecasting
   capability, predicting the energy mix for the future with a variety of
   scenarios. Common element to all these predictions is however the rise
   of the demand, roughly at the level of about 2 %/year. There are two
   main approaches to the question: 1) the "epidemic" approach of
   Marchetti, (Figure 5) who makes use of the epidemic equations to fit
   the past energy pattern in order to extrapolate for the future. In this
   scheme there is in the future, as it has been in the past, a dominant
   energy source. Transitions occur at the Kondriatiev's maxima of energy
   consumption, in correspondence of a surge in the energy prices.
   Transitions are technology and economically driven, rather than caused
   by 6 availability resources. In his prediction the next turns are (I)
   natural gas with a maximum in 2030, followed by (ii) fission driven
   "new nuclear", with a maximum in 2090, (iii) eventually followed by a
   choice between solar and/or fusion during the next century. 2) The
   "energy mix" approach for instance by the World Energy Council (Figure
   6, Shell Planning Group), in which a number of different, novel
   technologies, still to be developed, take progressively the place of
   fossils, which already by 2050 represent no more than 1/3 of the total
   primary energy supply. These new technologies are Wind, new Bio-mass,
   Solar, Geothermal and a "Surprise" to be defined, which develop quickly
   after circa 2020, in an explosive manner. Classic, fission driven
   nuclear energy survives, but at a modest level. There is no
   contribution of Fusion, at least until 2100. Their assumption on
   Geo-Thermal must be discarded, since it has been unrealistically
   assumed an averaged power of about 3 TWatt, since, as already pointed
   out, the geological heat from the full earth's crust is a mere 16
   TWatt. Contrary to the Marchetti's approach, in which a continuity with
   the past and purely economical considerations are dominant, the "energy
   mix" approach puts an extraordinary faith in the capability of
   technology of introducing new, ecologically driven methods for energy
   generation. These methods imply also a spatially distributed network of
   relatively small scale devices rather than centralized sources, as it
   is for instance today for electricity production. The main concern
   about this second approach is that the new renewable (solar, wind,
   etc.) though they may acquire a very important role in the medium and
   long range, they alone may not be enough to sustain the future
   expectations, which, for instance for 2060, assume an averaged total
   power production in excess of 30 TWatt, mostly coming directly or
   indirectly from the Sun. 3.- How much energy from the Sun ? The total
   annual, primary solar direct radiation energy, collected in the most
   favourable locations of the Sun belt is of the order of 2500 kWh/m2, 7
   corresponding to a time averaged power of the order of 280 Watt/m2.
   (Here in Sorrento we have about 2/3 of such a value). Including
   diffused light, the energy density is about 30% higher. The total
   active surface to collect the indicated power of 30 TWatt is about
   Scoll =1.07 ×105 km2 ,where is the conversion efficiency of the primary
   solar energy into useful energy. Note that the total, cultivated area
   of the planet is about 107 km2. The efficiency is about 0.1 for
   photo-voltaic (the occupational area must be scaled by a factor taking
   into account the space between captors) and that and 0.005 for new
   bio-mass (fast growing trees). In the case of wind energy (50 m tall
   towers, 33 m diameter helices separated by 1.25 diameters on average,
   class 4 wind) the required area for a given average power is about ten
   times the one of photo-voltaic. In order to compare directly solar to
   nuclear (either fission or fusion), we consider the thermal solar
   option, in which the sunlight is concentrated by mirrors in order to
   produce high quality heat, typically of order 500 ÷ 800 °C or even
   higher. The peak power density of solar light is about 0.1 W/cm2. If
   concentrated by a factor 2000, it gives a power density of about 200
   W/cm2, the same as the one from rods of a fission reactor, and in
   principle exploitable in a similar way. Concentration factors up to 104
   have been obtained with solar towers (Figure 7). A typical LWR produces
   a fission driven thermal power of 3.0 GWatt(t). In order to harness
   this amount of solar thermal power, the effective collector's surface
   must be of the order of 10 km2. In practice, taking into account the
   inevitable light losses of the optics (about 50%), the actual collector
   area should be about twice as large, i.e. 20 km2. The cost of the heat
   generating part of a 3.0 GWatt(t) reactor is nowadays of the order of
   1.5 ÷ 2 $US Billion, the cost subsequent heat utilisation being the
   same for the solar and nuclear options. High temperature heat is the
   standard entry point for electricity production. With the development
   of a hydrogen market, it could become also a source of hydrogen from
   water dissociation. For a competitive investment cost, the 2 × 107 m2
   system of solar collecting mirrors should then cost no more than about
   75 ÷ 100 $/m2. At present, its cost is about 200 $/m2, but for a
   world-wide installed power of 350 MWatt (peak). In view of 8 the huge
   scale factor (105 and up), a factor 2 ÷ 3 reduction in cost is not too
   extravagant. If properly constructed, the duration of operation of a
   solar plant should be comparable to the one of a LWR, namely 40 years
   or more. Its maintenance costs are definitely smaller and fuel cost is
   strictly zero. There is no fuel to produce, to handle or to dispose.
   Solar power utilisation generally requires an effective energy storage,
   in order to smooth out daily variations. This is currently performed
   heating a molten nitrite salt (melting point 220 °C, stable to about
   600 °C) which is kept in a low thermal leak storage tank. This
   technology is very mature and there are many substances at low cost
   which can be heated to the required temperature, acting as thermal
   storage. In the case of a exceptionally long low solar yield, an
   additional heater operated with fossil fuel can be operated as a
   backup. Clearly the solar thermal option could be made cost competitive
   with other present forms of energy, provided deployed on a sufficiently
   large scale. If , the conversion efficiency of the primary solar energy
   into useful energy is made sufficiently large, (for instance in the
   case of solar thermal the heat collection is probably 0.50, which
   combined with a thermo-dynamical efficiency of 1/2 could give 0.25) the
   amount of land required becomes quite reasonable. 4.- Conventional
   nuclear power. When nuclear energy was first developed in the sixties,
   it was greeted with the greatest enthusiasm. (We recall for instance
   the international, UN sponsored "Atoms for Peace" programme in Geneva
   in 1959). It promised an unlimited, cheap and abundant source of energy
   for the future of mankind. In the course of the years this enthusiasm
   has gradually disappeared and today nuclear power is perceived by many
   as "evil". Under the pressure of popular concern, a huge number of
   regulatory constraints have eroded the price margin of nuclear energy,
   which today does not seem to be any longer "the cheapest energy",
   especially when compared to fossils and in particular Natural Gas and
   Coal. It is also evident that at least in the developed countries,
   nuclear power has almost 9 completely filled its potential market's
   niche and, in this, nuclear is in good company with steel, housing, and
   cars, reached some kind of saturation in number. This is instead not
   completely so in the Developing Countries, where some fraction of the
   new installation are nuclear (f.i. China). The problem will present
   itself again in some 15÷20 years, when present installations will have
   reached the end of their practical life span. The apriori predicted
   features of nuclear energy, when compared to fossil fuels, are (1)
   potentially zero emissions and (2) an extremely parsimonious use of the
   fuel. For instance 1 ton of Uranium - provided iscompletely fissioned (
   = 1) - could produce the equivalent energy of 14 Million barrels of Oil
   (BOL) or 3 Million Tons of Coal (TEC). There is therefore a potential
   gain in the power yield of about 3×106 with respect to chemical energy.
   The present, planetary demand of energy (10 TWatt) could be ideally
   exhausted with about 3900 ton/year of fully fissile material. If
   fission is replaced with fusion (D+T), the primary, natural Lithium
   consumption in the same conditions will be a mere 16'000 ton/year, from
   which 6'800 ton/year of unstable T is bred, however 6.6 × 1013
   Cie/year. Unfortunately the present nuclear power technology,
   essentially based on Light Water Reactors (LWR) operated mostly on
   enriched Uranium and thermal neutrons, is far from such an idealised
   expectation. Only the 235U (0.71%) of natural Uranium is directly
   fissile, of which about 60% is extracted by enrichment. Therefore only
   about = 0.4% of the potential energy contained in the natural Uranium
   is energetically used. For instance in order to produce 1 GWe x 30
   years 6.1 TWh one has to handle 4.50 × 107 ton of high content Uranium
   ores (2000 ppm), to be compared with 3.21 × 108 ton of coal mining for
   a Coal fired plant. The conclusion is that most of the "magic" nuclear
   factor of 3×106 of nuclear energy is, as of today, almost wiped out.
   This is why, in spite of the tremendous potentials of nuclear energy -
   if used in this way - there is no more energy for future use from
   Uranium than from Oil. There are additional important arguments which
   play in disfavour of a purely LWR based nuclear energy option -
   especially if it has to be generalised: 10 (1) a significant amount of
   long lived isotopes (gases, etc.) are released in the environment, and
   more if reprocessing and MOX are used, in order to improve fuel
   efficiency. (2) Accidents have almost doubled the dose to population,
   mostly the criticality accident of Chernobyl. (3) The problem of the
   long lived radioactive waste. Existing nuclear power plants produce
   annually about 12'000 tons of highly radioactive spent fuel, of which
   about 1% (120 tons) are Plutonium. The radio-toxicity of this mass of
   material reaches the level of the initial Uranium ores only after about
   1 million years (4) Links to military applications. The critical mass
   of the Plutonium from a LWR is only some 30% larger than the one of
   bomb-grade 239Pu. An ill- minded group of individuals - especially if
   Nuclear Power is becoming wide-spread in Developing Countries,
   intrinsically more unstable because in a rapid evolution - may realise
   quite terrifying devices. (5) The thermo-dynamical efficiency, namely
   the fraction of thermal energy actually ending up in electricity is, as
   well known, temperature dependent and it is about 33% for LWR's,
   related to the actual level of technological development in the late
   sixties. In order to keep its competitive edge in the future, nuclear
   energy has to substantially increase the operating temperature and
   hence abandon the saturated steam option of classic LWR's. To conclude,
   and in order to harness realistically the immense potential energy
   inside nuclei, very tough, revival conditions must be satisfied, which,
   in turn, will inevitably demand new methods and new ideas. In addition,
   we must use, far more efficiently, a naturally abundant fuel in order
   to secure its wiser use and practically unlimited resources. Both
   Fusion and Accelerator driven Fission have a fighting chance of
   achieving such a goal. 11 5.- A Renovated Nuclear Scenario Energy is
   released whenever low Z nuclei fuse or high Z nuclei fragment (packing
   fraction). This leads to two substantially different breeds of devices:
   Fusion and the Accelerator driven Energy Amplifier (fission). Both
   methods hold the remarkable promise of = 1, namely full combustion of
   an initial, natural fuel and of virtually unlimited natural resources:
   (1) Fusion, in its simplest form, consists of the magnetically confined
   burning of Tritium (3H) through the reaction: 3 2 1 4 1 H+ 1H 0n + 2 He
   + 1 7 . 6 MeV The unstable Tritium(t1/2 = 12.33 y ) is produced by
   "breeding" from Lithium, using the produced neutron: 6 1 4 3 3 Li+0 n 2
   He+1H + 4.8 MeV Additional 31H ,which is needed to compensate
   inevitable losses, comes from the (fast) reaction 7 1 4 3 1 3 Li+0 n 2
   He+1H + 0n , in which the neutron is not destroyed. In this way we can
   achieve a breeding equilibrium, namely a situation in which the amount
   of 31H produced and burnt are the same. The main shortcoming of this
   reaction, the easiest to achieve, is that the bulk of the produced
   energy is carried by the fast (14 MeV) neutron, which, through
   secondary interactions, produces a considerable amount of activation in
   the reactor's structure. (2)More advanced Fusion reactions promise less
   radioactive activation. Another reaction would be possible with an
   initial deuterium-helium 3 mixture 3 2 4 1 2 He+1H 2He +1p + 18 MeV in
   which, however, some neutrons (6%) are produced in deuterium- deuterium
   collisions 2 2 3 1 1 H +1H 2He + 0 n + 3.27 MeV . The main shortcoming
   of this reaction is the lack of availability of 32He. The best one has
   been able to offer so far is to gather this fuel on the Moon, where it
   is accumulated as the result of the Solar Wind. It is hard to believe
   that thousand of tons of fuel could be brought back to Earth in an
   economically convincing fashion. (3) One of the ultimate advantages of
   Fusion with respect to Fission, is that there are several exothermic
   reactions which produce no neutron, neither 12 directly, nor indirectly
   through secondary reactions. Since neutrons are the primary sources of
   activation, this will be a tremendous asset, making the reaction
   inherently "clean". It is probably in this way that an ultimate nuclear
   energy will be eventually exploited in a very far fetched future,
   excluding the possibility of a "Cold Fusion". The simplest reaction of
   this kind is 1 11 4 [ ] 1 p + 5 B 3 2 He + 8.78 MeV , which
   unfortunately is known not to "ignite" in a magnetically confined
   device (Tokamak) and most likely also with inertially confined Fusion.
   Note that this reaction does not produce any gamma's or neutrons. Both
   Hydrogen and 11B 5 (81 % of natural Boron) are extremely abundant and
   easily obtained. Far more exotic devices are needed in order to exploit
   such a formidable asset. (4) Coming to Fission, the Accelerator driven
   Energy Amplifier (EA) is based on the fission reaction (FF: Fission
   Fragments) 233 1 1 [ ] 92U +o n 2.33 o n + 2 FF + 2 0 0 MeV driven by
   neutrons from a high energy Accelerator. Just like in the case (1) of
   Fusion, 233 92U , which does not exists in nature, is bred from natural
   Thorium by the reaction induced by secondary neutrons 232 1 233 233 o
   90Th + on 91 Pa + - decay ( 2 7 days ) 92U+-1e An external supply of
   neutrons, provided by an accelerator is necessary, since the neutron
   producing reaction gives 2.33 neutrons, while 2 neutrons are needed to
   close the breeding cycle. The difference being 2.33  2.00 = 0.33, it is
   hard to sustain criticality because of the inevitable neutron losses.
   Like in the case (1), a breeding equilibrium is reached, in which the
   amounts of 233 92U produced and burnt are equal. The EA can burn
   completely also the additional elements which are produced by 233 92U
   capturing neutrons (5% of fissions) and the subsequent reactions, in
   secular equilibrium with the main ones. Therefore, in contrast with the
   LWR's, the EA achieves with a closed actinide cycle complete burn-up by
   fission of the initial 23392Th and therefore 1. The only "waste" left
   are therefore Fission Fragments, which have a strong but not very long
   lasting activity. Both Fusion and Fission devices listed above are
   non-critical devices, in which, in addition, melt down has been
   rendered impossible. In both devices a 13 fraction f of the produced
   (electric) energy is recirculated, either to heat-up the plasma or to
   run the accelerator. This fraction f = 25 ÷ 30 % for devices of type
   (1) i.e. D-T magnetically confined Fusion and f = 5 ÷ 10% for the EA,
   type (4). In the following we shall limit our considerations to devices
   (1) and (4). Device (5) is essentially identical to (4), with the
   exception of a different choice of fuel. The main motivations for the
   Research and Development of new sources of energy from nuclei is that
   of reconciling the inherent advantages of such powerful and virtually
   unlimited energy sources with an environmentally acceptable and safe
   new technology. This has been the main thrust behind Fusion and it
   explains why so many people have been working so hard for such a long
   time in order to achieve it. The by far less ambitious development of
   the Accelerator Driven Energy Amplifier stems from the same objectives.
   It is therefore reasonable that the potentialities of both methods are
   compared and critically assessed (Figure 8). 6.- The energy carriers.
   So far we have considered the possible alternatives for the primary
   energy sources. However of fundamental importance is also the choice of
   the "energy carrier" from generation to use, especially taking into
   account that both in the case of solar and nuclear (see for instance
   the concept of the Canton Island of Marchetti) the distance between the
   points of production and of use will necessarily stretch over much
   longer distances. In this domain we are witnessing a progressive
   increment of fractional use of electricity, with an increase pro capite
   in the developed countries from 1100 kWatt/h to 25'000 kWatt/h in less
   than 100 years. One can visualise three main steps of the electricity
   penetration into the market ( Figure 9). Evidently electricity alone
   cannot be the only future carrier. Many applications now based on
   fossil fuels (oil and gas) cannot be immediately converted to the use
   of electricity. For these applications, the use of hydrogen is
   emerging. It should be stressed that hydrogen and electricity are the
   only two energy carriers which produce no harmful emission at the point
   of use and, by themselves, also at the point of production. 14 Hydrogen
   (H2) promises future uses which are unique and make it much more
   valuable than just another ignitable material. H2 is a remarkable
   energy carrier and the least polluting fuel. The introduction of H2 as
   an energy carrier requires no major technological breakthroughs. It is
   technically feasible to replace oil and natural gas with H2 in
   virtually all present uses. H2 can be stored, transported and delivered
   using technologies which are similar to the ones widely used for
   natural gas. H2 has a smaller density than methane (0.0899 vs. 0.714
   gr/litre ntp) and a combustion energy per unit volume which is only 1/3
   (12.76 vs. 39.7 kJ/litre ntp). Diffusion is larger by a factor almost
   three, which implies tighter seals. But it will flow more easily
   through a pipe, about a factor 2.8 faster. A pipeline designed for
   natural gas will transport H2 at the same pressure, but with only 80%
   of the energy flow.(Fe embrittlement?). One can expect that the cost of
   transmission for unit energy of H2 will be about 50% higher than for
   natural gas. When H2 is burnt in air the only pollutants are nitrogen
   oxides (NOx), which is however strongly reduced, because of the
   presence of H (H2O). Catalytic heaters, suitable for small scale
   applications, operate at lower temperatures than ordinary combustion
   and reducing NOx emission to a negligible level. Fuel cells permit the
   direct transformation of H2 into electricity at a theoretical
   efficiency of 0.83 (enthalpy limit), though practical performance is
   lower ( 0.7). This is about two times higher than ordinary
   turbo-generators or vehicle engines, produce no NOx and a much smaller
   waste heat. Studies on relative safety of H2 methane and gasoline have
   concluded that no one fuel is inherently safer than the others in every
   respect, but that all three fuels can be and have been used safely.
   Hydrogen-rich gases have been used for home heating and cooking for
   more than a century. "Town-Gas" is a mixture of approximately half H2
   and half CO and it has been generally used in most developed countries
   before natural gas became widely available. Producing H2 from fossils
   allows CO2 sequestration, thus reducing emissions to zero. It can be
   efficiently produced by water dissociation with high temperature
   nuclear heat (800 °C). Finally H2 is the most obvious "storage" for
   solar energy. 15 7.- Conclusions. To conclude, in the medium and long
   run, fossils most likely will not be capable to produce substantially
   more primary power than what available today. The factor about three in
   power demand forecasted for the middle of this century (according to 2%
   yearly increase of demand) must be met with different and innovative
   technologies, of which two seem to be most promising, namely (i) solar
   and (ii) new nuclear. Solar energy is abundant and if used efficiently
   could produce the energy needed for a long time to come. In particular
   the solar thermal approach seems rather promising, in the sense that it
   can be made rather efficient ( 0.25), it uses standard technologies for
   heat conversion and utilisation and it has potentialities for a price
   competitive to other sources. An advanced photo- voltaic (at present
   0.1 and with higher unit area cost) may take over at a later date.
   However meaningful utilisation of this form of energy is limited to the
   "sun belt" of relatively desert and sunny lands, fortunately of large
   proportions, but often very far of the main centres of human
   activities. It requires the development of a renovated system of energy
   carriers in which (i) electricity and (ii) hydrogen are the main
   contendents. There is no such a theorem which says that nuclear energy
   should be necessarily bad. But, in order to be applicable on a vast
   scale, energy from nuclei must undergo a deep transformation and very
   tough, revival conditions must be satisfied, which, in turn, will
   inevitably demand new methods and new ideas. There is no doubt that the
   environmental and safety features will govern any new development in
   the field of energy from nuclei. In addition, we must use, far more
   efficiently, a naturally abundant fuel, in order to secure its wiser
   use and practically unlimited resources. A renewed nuclear approach
   must be based on full breeding of a natural element, either through
   Fusion or through Fission. In both options the available potentially
   energy, though not strictly renewable, can realistically last for many
   tens of centuries at a few times the present consumption. But even if
   the practical use of this "nuclear" form of energy - at least in the
   present exploitation of the D-T reaction - may be questioned, Fusion
   should 16 be pursued vigorously as such since it is exploring a
   fundamental domain of basic science. There are two main forms of high
   temperature matter in Galaxies: (1) the low density high temperature
   gases, mostly hydrogen, gravitationally confined in space (2) and the
   high temperature and very high density compressed matter in the
   interior of stars. These domains correspond roughly and respectively to
   magnetically confined and inertially confined Fusion. They must be both
   thoroughly studied in order to better understand the Universe. For me,
   Fusion is and remains an essential field of Fundamental Science,
   worthwhile pursuing vigorously. Let me conclude with an anecdote
   related to Benjamin Franklin. A minister for finance asked him what was
   really the interest of studying electricity by flying kites. His answer
   was: "I do not really know, but I am sure that one of yours successors
   will put a tax on it !" 17 8.- Figures Figure 1 Energy vs. time for
   advanced sample of human civilisation Figure 2 (a) Energy consumption
   as a function of time. (b) Kondratiev cycle for electric energy
   consumption in the US Figure 3 Projected decline of world's
   conventional crude oil production. Graph also shows the demand, the oil
   production of the OPEC countries and of the other countries. (source:
   International Energy Agency) Figure 4 Energy consumption and human
   civilisation. Figure 5 Energy prices, consumption and substitution of
   primary energy supply (source: Marchetti). Figure 6 Future forecast of
   primary energy supply under the sustained growth scenario. (source:
   Shell Planning Group) Figure 7 Picture of the 10 MWatte solar thermal
   power station (Solar 2). Figure 8 Comparison of residual radio-toxicity
   of EA, MF and LWR's. The reference level of Coal is also shown, Figure
   9 Progressive electricity use in the US. 18 Figure 1. 19 Figure 2 20
   Figure 3. 21 Figure 4. 22 Figure 5. 23 Figure 6. 24 Figure 7 25 Figure
   8. 26 Figure 9.
