http://lutece.fnal.gov/Talks/SMOpening.pdf

   Why We Are Here Chris Quigg DPF / Fermilab Summer Study on the Future
   of Particle Physics Snowmass · June 30, 2001 Welcome! More than 1000
   participants . . . More than 80 students . . . More than 200 "young" .
   . . More than 150 from outside US . . . Thanks! DOE · NSF · NASA DPF ·
   DPB · IEEE / NPSS Argonne National Lab Berkeley Lab Brookhaven National
   Lab / Brookhaven Science Associates Cornell University / LNS / Wilson
   Synchrotron Lab Fermilab / Universities Research Association Jefferson
   Laboratory / SURA Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Los Alamos
   National Laboratory Oak Ridge National Lab / Spallation Neutron Source
   Stanford Linear Accelerator Center / Stanford University Thanks to the
   Organizing Committee Particle Physics Accelerators & Technology Chris
   Quigg (DPF) Ron Davidson (DPB; PPPL) Sally Dawson (BNL) Alex Chao
   (SLAC) Paul Grannis (Stony Brook) Alex Dragt (Maryland) David Gross
   (ITP/UCSB) Gerry Dugan (Cornell) Joe Lykken (Fermilab) Norbert Holtkamp
   (SNS) Hitoshi Murayama (Berkeley) Chan Joshi (UCLA) Ren´e Ong (UCLA)
   Thomas Roser (BNL) Natalie Roe (LBNL) Ron Ruth (SLAC) Heidi Schellman
   (Northwestern) John Seeman (SLAC) Maria Spiropulu (Chicago) Jim Strait
   (Fermilab) the Local Organizing Committee . . . and the Convenors
   Surviving Snowmass 2001 Altitude 2670 meters / 8764 feet . . . Don't
   overdo . . . Go easy for first few days Eat lightly, drink plenty of
   (NA) liquids Get plenty of sleep · Listen to your body Sunglasses!
   Sunscreen! PM storms! From the 189899 University of Chicago catalogue:
   "While it is never safe to affirm that the future of the Physical
   Sciences has no marvels in store even more astonishing than those of
   the past, it seems probable that most of the grand underlying
   principles have been firmly established and that further advances are
   to be sought chiefly in the rigorous application of these principles to
   all the phenomena which come under our notice . . . . An eminent
   physicist has remarked that the future truths of Physical Science are
   to be looked for in the sixth place of decimals." A Decade of Discovery
   Ahead . . . £ Higgs search and study; elucidate EWSB / 1-TeV scale £ CP
   violation in the B system; Rare decays (K, D, . . . ) £ Neutrino
   oscillations £ Top as a tool £ New phases of matter; hadronic physics £
   Exploration! Extra dimensions / new dynamics / SUSY / new forces &
   constituents £ Proton decay £ What kinds of matter and energy make up
   the universe? £ Particle astrophysics and astronomy; precision
   cosmology; astroparticles . . . and Many Imaginative Ideas £ Refining
   known technologies to accelerate and collide electrons, protons,
   pushing the frontiers of energy, sensitivity, precise control brighter
   proton sources very-high-luminosity e+e- "factories" for B, / charm, ,
   . . . high-field magnets, Tevatron "Tripler" Super-LHC Very Large
   Hadron Collider e+e- Linear Colliders . . . £ Exotic acceleration
   technologies for electrons, protons (teach-in July 5) £ Exotic
   particles for accelerators and colliders muon storage rings µ+µ-
   collider collider . . . £ Fundamental physics with found beams
   (teach-in, CPU July 13) gravity wave detectors neutrino telescopes
   cosmic microwave background measurements cosmic-ray observatories -ray
   astronomy large-scale optical surveys . . . £ Enabling technologies for
   accelerators, experiments, theory NPSS Technology Short Courses and
   Lunchtime Lectures from July 5 David Larbalestier on Superconducting
   Materials (1230 - 1330) Juwen Wang (half day on room-temperature
   accelerating structures) Working groups E7, T7, . . . The decade of
   discovery won't happen automatically . . . £ Many of our goals are
   difficult. £ Timely success is in doubt for many experiments. £ Getting
   to the answers is important! The decade of discovery won't happen
   automatically . . . £ Many of our goals are difficult. £ Timely success
   is in doubt for many experiments. £ Getting to the answers is
   important! . . . and neither will the glorious futures that lie beyond.
   £ We need to do more to prepare our possible futures. £ The scope of
   our science has grown; funding has not. £ We can communicate much more
   effectively the wonders of our science. £ International cooperation
   will make many more futures possible: choices can be when and where,
   not this or that. Elementarity £ Are quarks and leptons structureless?
   Elementarity £ Are quarks and leptons structureless? Symmetry £
   Electroweak symmetry breaking and the 1-TeV scale £ Origin of gauge
   symmetries Elementarity £ Are quarks and leptons structureless?
   Symmetry £ Electroweak symmetry breaking and the 1-TeV scale £ Origin
   of gauge symmetries Unity £ Coupling constant unification £ Unification
   of quarks and leptons (new forces!); of constituents and force
   particles £ Incorporation of gravity Elementarity £ Are quarks and
   leptons structureless? Symmetry £ Electroweak symmetry breaking and the
   1-TeV scale £ Origin of gauge symmetries Unity £ Coupling constant
   unification £ Unification of quarks and leptons (new forces!); of
   constituents and force particles £ Incorporation of gravity Identity £
   Fermion masses and mixings; CP violation; neutrino oscillations £ What
   makes an electron an electron and a top quark a top quark? Elementarity
   £ Are quarks and leptons structureless? Symmetry £ Electroweak symmetry
   breaking and the 1-TeV scale £ Origin of gauge symmetries Unity £
   Coupling constant unification £ Unification of quarks and leptons (new
   forces!); of constituents and force particles £ Incorporation of
   gravity Identity £ Fermion masses and mixings; CP violation; neutrino
   oscillations £ What makes an electron an electron and a top quark a top
   quark? Topography £ What is the fabric of space and time? . . . the
   origin of space and time? Some Goals for Snowmass 2001 £ Survey our
   aspirations for particle physics over 30 years. DPF preparing
   illustrated survey of grand themes. £ Assess the current state of
   development of accelerator protoprojects and advanced accelerator
   research, and understand the investment we must make (financial and
   human capital) to bring the most promising lines to maturity. DPB
   preparing Snowmass Accelerator R&D Report. £ Look beyond our immediate
   goals for measurements and searches to contemplate the shape of a more
   complete, more ambitious theoretical framework. How should theoretical
   vision shape our experimental goals? £ Examine the importance of scale
   diversity for a healthy and productive future. £ Educate ourselves
   about the full range of possibilities before us. We must know enough to
   judge critically, to improve the arguments, to articulate our goals
   effectively. HMOs in E1  E6. £ Listen carefully to our young
   colleagues, who will help create our common futures. Young Physicists
   Forum, July 17 £ Take advantage of opportunities to interact with the
   HEPAP Subpanel. Technical work carried out at Snowmass will undergird
   the recommendations the subpanel makes. £ Consider the international
   dimensions of what we hope to achieve. International lab directors
   Global Accelerator Network Discussion July 3 Reports from ECFA and
   Japan HEP Planning Committees £ I believe we must articulate a
   comprehensive vision of particle physics (and the sciences it touches)
   to make our case effectively to ourselves, to other scientists, and to
   society at large. At the same time, we have a special responsibility to
   examine the prospects for the most ambitious accelerators, which are
   major drivers of our scientific progress. If we judge the science to be
   rich, and if we can make the cost and technical risk attractive, we
   will want to pursue all the leading possibilities: linear colliders,
   hadron colliders reaching far beyond the TeV scale, muon storage ring,
   and muon collider. The vision we present should include the scientific
   promise of all these instruments, and a strategy for deciding what,
   where, and when that includes the organic R&D investment we will need
   to evolve the right set of instruments to serve our science. £ Thanks
   to the work of many people, the moment is upon us to probe, shape, and
   judge the idea of a linear collider as a possible next big step for
   particle physics. Evaluating a linear collider and working to define a
   scientifically rich, technically sound, fiscally responsible plan is a
   homework problem for the entire community. Everyone must come to an
   informed judgment. £ Think about how to make our dreams happen.
   Creating a future is not accomplished when we draw our individual
   conclusions or read the subpanel recommendations. Your passion, energy,
   creativity, and commitment will change the world.
