http://www.ecy.wa.gov/programs/eap/index.html

   Access Washington Department of Ecology Home Page

   Ecology Home
   About Ecology
   Directory
   Public Events
   Laws and Rules
   Publications
   Public Records
   spacer
   Environmental Info.
   spacer
   Services
   spacer
   spacer
   Programs
   Air Quality
   Env. Assessment
   Hazardous Waste
   Nuclear Waste
   Shorelands
   Solid Waste
   Spills
   Toxics Cleanup
   Water Quality
   Water Resources
   spacer
   spacer
   Contracting
   Jobs
   Other Links


   Search Environmental Assessment Program pages Contact Us E-Mail Lists
   Site Information

   Environmental Assessment Program

      Ongoing monitoring | Published studies | Manchester Laboratory |
      Laboratory Accreditation | PBT Strategy

      The Environmental Assessment Program Works to provide reliable data and
      information about environmental conditions that can be used to measure
      agency effectiveness, inform public policy, and help focus the use of
      limited resources. For additional background information see
      Environmental Assessment Program Overview (Adobe pdf format).

   Ongoing monitoring  go to top of the page

        * Aquatic plant monitoring
        * Lake water quality
        * Marine water quality
        * Puget Sound bottom sediments
        * River and stream water quality
        * River and stream flow monitoring
        * South Puget Sound nutrient study
        * Stream biological monitoring

   Published studies  go to top of the page

      Last year the Environmental Assessment Program published 44 studies. An
      index of EAP studies by year is available here.

   Manchester Environmental Laboratory  go to top of the page

      Operated jointly by EPA Region 10 and Ecology, Manchester Laboratory
      provides comprehensive technical and analytical support for work at
      Ecology involving chemistry or microbiology.

   Environmental Laboratory Accreditation  go to top of the page

      The Environmental Assessment Program accredits environmental
      laboratories for water quality analyses and determinations (including
      sediments and sludges). Information on how to get accredited and a
      searchable list of labs and their accredited methods is available here.

   PBT Strategy  go to top of the page
   (Persistent, Bioaccumulative, and Toxic Chemicals)

      PBTs are toxic chemicals that persist in the environment. Ecology has
      released a PBT reduction strategy. This strategy calls for making
      continual reductions of PBT releases into Washington's environment over
      the next 20 years. A "starter list" of 9 PBT chemicals is proposed.
        * Questions and answers on the Ecology PBT Initiative
        * Report list
          environmental assessment reports related to PBTs
