http://ecfp.cadc.uscourts.gov/MS-Docs/1500/0.pdf

   IN THE United States Court of Appeals FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
   CIRCUIT Nos. 00-5212, 5213 MICROSOFT CORPORATION, Defendant-Appellant,
   v. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA and STATE OF NEW YORK, et al.,
   Plaintiffs-Appellees. ON APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
   FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA MICROSOFT'S REPLY IN SUPPORT OF ITS MOTION
   FOR AN ORDER GOVERNING FURTHER PROCEEDINGS Appellees seek to
   short-circuit the appellate process by curtailing both the scope of
   Microsoft's submissions and the time allowed for their preparation.
   Their only proffered ground for so limiting this process is "the
   compelling public interest in prompt disposition of this important
   case." (Resp. at 3.) This is indeed an important case, as the Court and
   all parties have agreed. But particularly in such an important case, if
   there is no threat of irreparable harm-and none has been shown here-the
   "compelling public interest" is in a proper disposition of the case,
   not in one reached in haste. To ensure a proper disposition, the Court
   should implement an appellate process conducive to a thorough,
   thoughtful and careful review of all the issues presented.
   Notwithstanding appellees' claim that immediate relief "is essential
   for effective antitrust law enforcement" in the computer industry
   (Resp. at 2), the district court, over appellees' objection, stayed the
   final judgment in its entirety pending appeal. Given that the decision
   below threatens Microsoft's very existence, Microsoft has a
   responsibility to its employees, shareholders, business partners and
   customers, as well as to this Court, to propose an appellate process
   that is adequate to resolve the many issues presented. The proceedings
   Microsoft has proposed are the minimum necessary to achieve that
   objective. 1. Length of Briefs. Microsoft set out in its motion the 19
   principal legal issues it intends to raise on appeal. In addition to
   those issues, Microsoft also must set out the facts of the case, which
   the district court required 207 pages to present in its findings
   (despite its omission of certain facts that Microsoft will call to the
   Court's atten- tion). Appellees do not claim that any of Microsoft's 19
   issues are insubstantial. They instead simply assert, without a word of
   explanation, that those issues and the facts of the case can be "fairly
   accommodated" in a principal brief of 24,000 words or approximately 72
   pages. (Resp. at 5.) Having repeatedly led the district court into
   error, appellees now seek by ipse dixit to restrict this Court's
   ability to consider those errors by limiting Microsoft's opportunity to
   present its arguments. The word limitations proposed by Microsoft are
   the product of the con- sidered judgment of counsel. Mindful of their
   duty of candor, counsel represent to the Court that 56,000 words
   constitute the minimum space required to state the case and present
   Microsoft's arguments as concisely as possible. Assuming that Microsoft
   devotes approximately half of its principal brief to its jurisdictional
   statement, statement of the - 2 - issues, statement of the case,
   statement of the facts and statement of the standard of review,
   Microsoft's proposed word limit would leave it only 28,000 words to
   argue the 19 significant issues presented.1 This appeal presents
   factual issues relating not only to two allegedly sep- arate product
   markets-"Intel-compatible PC operating systems" and "Web browsers"- but
   also to many complicated technologies included in neither market, such
   as Intel's Native Signal Processing software, Sun's Java technologies,
   Apple's QuickTime multi- media software, and RealNetworks' streaming
   media software. The appeal also presents serious legal issues relating,
   inter alia, to the integration of new functionality into prod- ucts,
   the definition of relevant product markets in rapidly changing
   technology industries, the interaction between federal copyright laws
   and antitrust laws, and the appropriate standards under Sections 1 and
   2 of the Sherman Act for tying, exclusive dealing, mon- opolization,
   attempted monopolization and relief. Finally, the appeal raises
   important issues concerning the administration of justice relating to
   the conduct of the trial, the imposition of sweeping and punitive
   relief without a hearing, the abdication of the judicial function in
   deference to the Executive Branch in fashioning relief, and the
   district court's continuing public commentary about the merits of the
   case in violation of Canon 3A(6) of the Code of Conduct for United
   States Judges. In seeking to limit Microsoft to 24,000 words, appellees
   apparently hope to force Microsoft either to abandon legitimate 1
   Appellees state that a principal brief of 56,000 words would result in
   "well over 200 pages in non-proportionally spaced type." (Resp. at 4.)
   Microsoft estimates that a principal brief of 56,000 words would be
   approximately 170 pages in proportionally-spaced, 12-point font with
   one inch margins. Circuit Rule 32(a)(1). - 3 - appellate issues or to
   give them shortshrift, thus adversely affecting this Court's ability to
   review the decision below. Appellees assert that the briefing format
   proposed by Microsoft "would burden the Court and inevitably delay
   disposition of the appeal." (Resp. at 5.) To the contrary, thorough
   briefing by the parties will minimize the amount of independent record
   review and legal research that must be performed by the Court. The need
   for a detailed discussion of the relevant facts by Microsoft is
   particularly acute here given the district court's failure to include
   any citations to the record in its findings. See United States v.
   Marine Bancorp., 418 U.S. 602, 615 n.13 (1974) ("We have also been
   hampered by the absence of transcript citations in support of the
   District Court's findings."). Despite appellees' professed desire to
   avoid overburdening this Court with submissions, they propose that the
   States be permitted to file a separate brief of 7,000 words "on issues
   of particular interest to them"-which they do not identify-and that no
   limitation be placed on the number of amicus briefs. (Resp. at 5, 6.)2
   Appellees then assert that Microsoft's reply-which will need to respond
   to appellees' consolidated brief, the States' separate brief and, in
   appellees' view, numerous amicus briefs-"should be limited to the
   standard 7,000 words." (Resp. at 5-6.) The States have already con-
   ceded that their statutes are coterminous with the relevant provisions
   of the Sherman Act. See United States v. Microsoft Corp., 87 F. Supp.
   2d 30, 55 (D.D.C. 2000). Appellees 2 Microsoft agrees that amici should
   be required "to file their briefs at the same time as the principal
   brief of the party they support." (Resp. at 6.) Microsoft continues to
   submit, how- ever, that the number of amicus briefs should be limited.
   If numerous amicus briefs are filed by Microsoft's competitors and
   their trade associations, Microsoft may need more space to address them
   in reply, particularly if those "briefs" rely, as they did in the
   district court, on extrajudicial information. - 4 - thus should be held
   in the aggregate to the same space limitations that apply to
   Microsoft's principal brief. Appellees also advance no reason why this
   Court should depart from the standard rule that a reply brief may be
   half the combined length of appellees' principal briefs. FED. R. APP.
   P. 32(a)(7)(B)(ii). In short, it is clear from appellees' proposal that
   they seek not to minimize this Court's burden, but to impose unfair
   limitations on Microsoft's ability to present its arguments on appeal.
   To ensure full presentation of its appellate arguments for this Court's
   benefit, Microsoft requires a principal brief of 56,000 words. 2.
   Briefing Schedule. The briefing schedule proposed by Microsoft readily
   permits "prompt disposition" of this appeal. At the same time, that
   schedule is adequate to enable counsel to lay out issues and analyze
   them in a professional manner so as to discharge their responsibilities
   to their clients and the Court. Appellees complain that "[a]lmost four
   months have passed since the district court entered its final order,"
   and they argue that "the Court should set a schedule that will allow
   briefing to be com- pleted this calendar year." (Resp. at 2, 5.) Of
   course, were it not for the three-month delay engendered by appellees'
   strenuous effort to avoid this Court's review, briefing would have been
   completed in November of this year under Microsoft's proposed schedule.
   It is truly remarkable that appellees now seek to shift to Microsoft
   the blame for, and the burden of, the delay that resulted from their
   tactical decision to seek direct review in the Supreme Court. 3. Other
   Issues. It is simply not practical for Microsoft to file the joint
   appendix together with its reply brief, as appellees suggest (Resp. at
   7), and FRAP 30(c)(1) does not so require. Microsoft instead requests
   that it be given 10 days - 5 - after its reply brief is served to file
   the joint appendix. Microsoft addressed the other matters-oral argument
   and the possibility of supplemental briefs-in its motion because the
   Court directed Microsoft to file "a motion to govern further
   proceedings herein." Microsoft trusts that the Court will address these
   matters whenever it deems appropriate. Respectfully submitted,
   ______________________________ William H. Neukom John L. Warden Thomas
   W. Burt Richard J. Urowsky David A. Heiner, Jr. Steven L. Holley
   MICROSOFT CORPORATION Richard C. Pepperman, II One Microsoft Way
   SULLIVAN & CROMWELL Redmond, Washington 98052 125 Broad Street (425)
   936-8080 New York, New York 10004 (212) 558-4000 Counsel for
   Defendant-Appellant October 5, 2000 Microsoft Corporation - 6 -
   CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE I hereby certify that on this 5th day of
   October, 2000, I caused a true and correct copy of the foregoing
   Microsoft's Reply in Support of Its Motion for an Order Governing
   Further Proceedings to be served by facsimile and by hand upon: Phillip
   R. Malone, Esq. Catherine G. O'Sullivan, Esq. Antitrust Division Chief,
   Appellate Section U.S. Department of Justice U.S. Department of Justice
   325 Seventh Street, N.W. Antitrust Division Suite 615 601 D Street,
   N.W. Washington, D.C. 20530 Room 10536 Fax: (415) 436-6687 Washington,
   D.C. 20530 Fax: (202) 514-0536 And by facsimile and by overnight
   courier upon: Richard L. Schwartz, Esq. Deputy Chief, Antitrust Bureau
   New York State Attorney General's Office 120 Broadway, Suite 2601 New
   York, New York 10271 Fax: (212) 416-6015 Kevin J. O'Connor, Esq. Office
   of the Attorney General of Wisconsin P.O. Box 7857 123 West Washington
   Avenue Madison, Wisconsin 53703-7957 Fax: (608) 267-2223 Christine
   Rosso, Esq. Chief, Antitrust Bureau Illinois Attorney General's Office
   100 West Randolph Street, 13th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60601 Fax: (312)
   814-2549 ______________________ Bradley P. Smith
