http://www.savingsbonds.gov/mar/marvolun.htm

   skip to main content
   Savings Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

   U.S. Savings Bonds Campaign Leaders and Volunteers Area
   line divider

              For Savings Bond Campaign Leaders and Volunteers

   If you experience difficulty downloading any of the files below, press
         the shift key while clicking or use the right mouse button

                                 Volunteers

   The Savings Bonds Program relies on the support of thousands of
   volunteers in communities, business and government throughout the
   country to inform the American public about the importance of saving
   and about U.S. Savings Bonds. Executive volunteers serve as members of
   the U.S. Savings Bonds Volunteer Committee and Area Campaign Chairs,
   organized according to their community or geographic affiliations. In
   addition, many community leaders serve in other capacities, and
   thousands of people serve as volunteer canvassers for payroll campaigns
   where they work.

   The Savings Bonds Program would not be able to accomplish its goals and
   purposes each year without your support and assistance. We value your
   assistance greatly and thank you for it.

   This page provides information and tools to support you in your
   volunteer service, especially those of you who are leading campaigns.
   We welcome your ideas about how to make it serve you better - just drop
   us a line at SBMarket@bpd.treas.gov.

                           Promoting Savings Bonds

   If you've taken on responsibility for leading a savings bonds campaign,
   bookmark this page! It will always have the latest materials and advice
   on how to promote savings bonds successfully. See also our page of
   materiales en español - materials in Spanish.
     * Payroll Savings Tools. If you have a leadership role in promoting
       payroll savings - for example, as a campaign coordinator, employee
       newsletter editor, intranet webmaster or employee benefits
       administrator - our payroll savings promotional tools and resources
       page has advice and materials. See also the general items below.
     * General Promotional Tools. If you work for a bank and want to give
       your customers up-to-date information, or you are publicizing
       savings bonds to members of an organization or through a community
       event, take a look at the brochure U.S. Savings Bonds - "You Don't
       Have to Risk Everything Just to Get What You Want" (PDF file, 133K,
       uploaded 11/17/00), available free in quantity from your local
       savings bonds representative or SBMarket@bpd.treas.gov.
       Be sure to tell people about the Savings Bond Wizard software and
       the online Savings Bonds Calculator to keep track of their bonds,
       or the Personal Record of Ownership for those who prefer to keep
       track of their bonds on paper.
     * Presentation Tools. Speakers and meeting planners, use or adapt our
       Powerpoint Slides for General Audiences (355K, uploaded 5/4/00) and
       Powerpoint Slides on the I Bond (401K, uploaded 5/8/00).
     * Graphics. Brighten up any page, whether in a publication or a story
       or link on a website. See our clip art page for colorful graphics
       images.

                                                 Updated January 24, 2002
