http://www.senate.gov/~foreign/minority/press_template.cfm?rands_id=178825

         Main |  Committee Info |  Hearings |  Press |  Links |  Majority
                                     Website

   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   DATE: September 26, 2001                             CONTACT: Lester Munson
                                           PHONE: 202-224-6797

   Helms Introduces Amendment to Protect Servicemen From International Criminal
                                       Court

                       Letter of Bush Administration Support

         Senate Foreign Relations Committee Ranking Republican Jesse Helms
         (R-NC) delivered the following statement on the Senate floor this
       afternoon concerning his amendment to the Defense Authorization Act,
                   which is endorsed by the Bush Administration:

      Mr. President, after dastardly terrorists killed thousands of American
      citizens in New York, Washington and that plane crash in Pennsylvania,
            President Bush instructed our armed services to "be ready."

       And, this nation is at war with terrorism, and thousands in our armed
       forces are already risking their lives around the globe, prepared to
       fight that war. These are courageous men and women who are not afraid
       to face up to evil terrorists, and they are ready to risk their lives
                  to preserve and protect the miracle of America.

         And that is why, Mr. President, I am among those of their fellow
        countrymen who insist that these men and women who are willing risk
       their lives to protect their country and fellow Americans should not
       have to face the persecution of the International Criminal Court ---
       which ought to be called the International Kangaroo Court. This court
          will be empowered when 22 more nations ratify the Rome Treaty.

       Mr. President, instead of helping the United States go after real war
        criminals and terrorists, the International Criminal Court has the
       unbridled power to intimidate our military people and other citizens
       with bogus, politicized prosecutions. Similar creations of the United
                    Nations have shown that this is inevitable.

        Earlier this year, the U.N. Human Rights Commission kicked off the
      United States --- the world's foremost advocate of human rights --- to
                     the cheers of dictators around the globe.

      The United Nation's conference on racism in Durban, South Africa, this
      past month, became an agent of hate rather than against hate. With this
          track record, it is not difficult to anticipate that the U.N.'s
         International Criminal Court will be in a position not merely to
       prosecute, but to persecute our soldiers and sailors for alleged war
        crimes as they risk their lives fighting the scourge of terrorism.

        Therefore, Mr. President, now is the time for the Senate to move to
                       protect those who are protecting us.

      I have an amendment at the desk to serve as a sort of insurance policy
       for our troops. My amendment is supported by the Bush Administration
      and is based on the "American Service Members Protection Act," which I
      introduced this past May. It is cosponsored by Senators Miller, Shelby,
         Murkowski, Bond, and Allen. Mr. President, many Americans may not
       realize that the Rome Treaty can apply to Americans even without the
      U.S. ratifying the treaty. This bewildering threat to America's men and
                    women in our armed forces must be stopped.

      And that is precisely what my amendment proposes to do --- it protects
                            Americans in several ways:

       (1) It will prohibit cooperation with this kangaroo court, including
           use of taxpayer funding or sharing of classified information.

       (2) It will restrict a U.S. role in peacekeeping missions unless the
          U.N. specifically exempts U.S. troops from prosecution by this
       international court. (3) It blocks U.S. aid to allies unless they too
      sign accords to shield U.S. troops on their soil from being turned over
                                    to the ICC.

         And (4) It authorizes any necessary action to free U.S. soldiers
                       improperly handed over to that Court.

        My amendment to the Defense Authorization bill incorporates changes
           negotiated with the Executive Branch giving the President the
        flexibility and authority to delegate tasks in the bill to Cabinet
        Secretaries and their deputies in this time of national emergency.

       The Bush Administration supports this slightly revised version of the
      "American Service Members Protection Act." I ask unanimous consent that
         a letter from the Administration in support of this amendment be
                              included in the record.

          Mr. President, nothing is more important than the safety of our
         citizens, soldiers and public servants. The terrorist attacks of
              September 11 have made that fact all the more obvious.

        Today, we can, we must, act to protect our military personnel from
                    abuse by the International Criminal Court.

                                     ## 30 ##

                                        ###
         Main |  Committee Info |  Hearings |  Press |  Links |  Majority
                                     Website
