http://www.mtc.gov/TXPYRSVS/Services.htm

                               [banner11.gif]




                           SERVICES FOR TAXPAYERS
                          Updated December 20, 2001

                       Alternative Dispute Resolution

                       Multistate Voluntary Disclosure

                      Sales/Use Tax Registration Forms

             Uniform Sales/Use Tax Resale Exemption Certificate

                       Taxpayer-Initiated Joint Audits
     State Sales and Use Tax Information for Fundraisers and Non-Profit
                                Organizations
      RFP:Multistate Electronic Tax Registration System: Invitation to
                                   Vendors
   RFP: Public-Private Sector Study of Cost of Collecting State and Local
                             Sales and Use Taxes
    RFP: Request for Proposals for a Study and Plan for Joint Cooperative
                                  Auditing
   Questions and Answers from Bidders' Conference on Cooperative Auditing
                                     RFP

   The Alternative Dispute Resolution Program

   One of the major purposes of the Commission under the Multistate Tax
   Compact is to work to minimize or avoid duplicative taxation among the
   States. The Commission has recently implemented a voluntary Alternative
   Dispute Resolution (ADR) Program to fulfill that purpose. The specific
   objectives of the Program include:
     * providing a voluntary, cooperative means of resolving state tax
       controversies involving two or more States.
     * reducing costs and risks of litigation for both the public and
       private sectors.
     * providing a means of addressing the multistate character of the
       controversy so that the interstate issues can be resolved among the
       relevant parties consistentlya result that is not assured even if a
       taxpayer litigates separately in the different States involved in
       the issue.

   The program was developed jointly by the Commission and the Committee
   on State Taxation (COST). Mediation, arbitration and combinations of
   the two are available under the Programs procedures. However, all of
   the procedures are purely voluntary and can be entered only through
   agreement of all parties.

   Additional information about the MTCs Alternative Dispute Resolution
   Program is available from Paull Mines at 202-624-8699, including a more
   detailed description, a list of specific procedures, and a list of
   mediators and arbitrators that have been qualified by the Commission to
   conduct ADR under the auspices of the Program. Or, you may e-mail us
   with a request for this information.

   Multistate Voluntary Disclosure Process

    The Multistate Tax Commission's National Nexus Program operates an
   innovative voluntary disclosure program that allows taxpayers to
   resolve potential tax liabilities simultaneously with multiple States.
   Through this program, multistate businesses may anonymously approach
   any or all of the National Nexus Program Member States to propose
   settlement of potential state sales/use tax and/or income/franchise tax
   liabilities arising from past activities within the States. Taxpayers
   benefit by resolving potential state tax disputes before States issue
   prior year assessment of taxes, interest and penalties. Multistate
   resolution saves time and money, and the Commission staff performs most
   of the work at no cost to the taxpayer.

   To encourage voluntary compliance through this program, the Commission
   has adopted a policy where the Commission will not disclose the
   identities of taxpayers who voluntarily enter into settlements with
   those states that do not accept the taxpayer's proffer.

   A detailed description of the voluntary disclosure process is available
   here. Or, if you prefer a paper copy you may also e-mail us with a
   request for this publication or call Donna Banks at 202-508-3800. All
   inquiries will be kept strictly confidential.

   Sales/Use Tax Vendor Registration Forms

   The Commission serves as a central source for state sales and use tax
   vendor registration forms and instructions for taxpayers who have
   determined that they are obligated to register or choose to do so
   voluntarily. (Commission staff are not authorized to answer questions
   regarding specific States nexus standards or other aspects of their
   registration requirements; such questions should be directed to the
   sales and use tax divisions of the individual States involved).
   Registration materials are available for all States with sales and use
   taxes. Materials also may be requested by e-mailing us or calling Donna
   Banks at 202-508-3800. Please request forms for only those States with
   which you intend to register.

   The Uniform Sales and Use Tax Exemption CertificateMultijurisdiction

   The Commission has developed a Uniform Sales and Use Tax Certificate
   that 38 States have indicated is acceptable for use as a "blanket"
   resale certificate and for similar purposes. You may download a copy of
   the Certificate in Adobe Acrobat ".pdf" format. (An Acrobat Reader is
   available from the Adobe World Wide Web site). You may also e-mail us
   with a request for the Certificate or call Mrs. Nelson at 202-624-8699
   to obtain a copy. The Certificate itself contains instructions on its
   use, lists the States that have indicated to the Commission that a
   properly filled out form satisfies their requirements for a valid
   resale certificate, and sets forth specific limitations on its use.
   Once you have examined the form, additional questions concerning it may
   be directed to René Blocker, MTC Deputy Director, at 202-624-8699 or
   rblocker@mtc.gov.

   Taxpayer-Initiated Joint Audits

   Taxpayers may request in writing a joint audit conducted on behalf of
   participating States by the Multistate Tax Commission. This request
   will be submitted to the MTC Audit Director. The Audit Director will
   submit this request to the MTC Audit Committee at its next scheduled
   meeting.

   The MTC Audit Committee will consider adding this taxpayer to the Joint
   Audit Program's audit inventory. The decision to place an audit in the
   MTC audit inventory is at the sole discretion of the Audit Committee.
   This is accomplished through a vote of the members of the Audit
   Committee. If the taxpayer is selected for the MTC audit inventory, the
   MTC Audit Director will schedule the taxpayer for audit. Each State
   will then be sent an audit authorization form which gives each State
   the final opportunity to participate in the joint audit. States
   desiring to participate in the audit will return the signed audit
   authorizations to the MTC Audit Director. The taxpayer is then
   contacted by the MTC to schedule a field audit appointment.

   Preference will be given to requests from taxpayers that:

   1. Have nexus with ten or more States participating in the MTC Joint
   Audit Program, and

   2. Meet one or both of the following criteria:
     * Present tax issues that would benefit from a consistent
       determination of tax liability among a group of States.
     * Have recently registered with at least ten States participating in
       the MTC Joint Audit Program, have never been audited by those
       States, and that seek the guidance and education on tax filing
       responsibilities that arise from an audit.

   In deciding whether or not to place the requesting taxpayer in the
   Program's audit inventory, the MTC Audit Committee will consider these
   factors:

   1. Whether or not the taxpayer meets or exceeds the preference criteria
   above.

   2. The availability of audit staff resources within the MTC Joint Audit
   Program.

   3. A determination that the taxpayer is of sufficient size and
   geographic scale of operations to justify the use of MTC Joint Audit
   Program resources for an audit.

   4. The willingness of at least seven States to participate in the
   audit.

   State Sales and Use Tax Information for Fundraisers and Nonprofit
   Organizations

   Each year, schools, school groups, PTAs, PTOs, youth sports leagues and
   other non-profit organizations raise nearly $2 billion by selling
   merchandise to the public (product fundraising).

   The web site is designed to assist these nonprofit organizations and
   fundraising companies in determining the sales and use tax
   implications, if any, resulting from product fundraising drives. The
   goal is to provide a publicly-accessible clearinghouse of information
   about the States' provisions, practices and procedures related to the
   transactional taxation of fundraising sales, products and
   organizations.

   Multistate Electronic Tax Registration System: Invitation to Vendors

   The Multistate Tax Commission (MTC) is soliciting proposals from
   vendors to design and implement a multistate electronic tax
   registration system. The system must enable multistate taxpayers to
   register to report and remit tax simultaneously in a number of
   jurisdictions on a "one-stop shopping" basis. The MTC will certify
   vendors to provide this service. Certification will be dependent on
   each vendor meeting project technical and privacy criteria. Any vendor
   so certified may offer its services directly to taxpayers on a
   competitive basis. Certified vendors will be responsible for
   establishing and maintaining interfaces with participating states and
   with taxpayers; no state will be expected to modify its existing
   systems in order to participate in the project. The MTC will maintain a
   webpage listing the certified vendors and providing taxpayer access to
   those vendors by a system of links. The project is intended to both
   accommodate conventional registration under the current system, and to
   be easily adaptable for users of the Streamlined Sales Tax System.
   Please refer to the Streamlined Systems website at
   http://www.geocities.com/streamlined2000/ for a description of the
   Streamlined System. From the users perspective, the system must provide
   for a seamless registration process that does not require the user to
   register separately with each state.

   The projects initial focus will be sales and use tax and business
   activity taxes, such as the corporate income tax. The MTC welcomes and
   encourages all vendors to work with us in its effort to serve as an
   electronic portal for multistate tax registration. The attached policy
   statement is intended to provide vendors with an overview of
   requirements for participation. Interested vendors should contact
   Sheldon Laskin at slaskin@mtc.gov or (202) 508-3807 for more
   information, including copies of the project documentation referred to
   on page 4 of the policy statement.
     __________________________________________________________________

                       [TOP]  [MTC HOME] [CONTACT US]
