http://www.usdoj.gov/youthviolence.htm

   c USDOJ Seal U.S. Department of Justice
       HOMEPAGE    |     CONTACT US    |     PRIVACY NOTICE    |     SITE
   MAP    |     SEARCH

   Youth Violence
   gold bar with blue star

   Resources for Parents

   The Parenting Resources for the 21st Century Web site links parents and
   other adults responsible for the care of a child with information on
   issues covering the full spectrum of parenting.

   The site offers information that focuses on the concerns of family
   members who have experienced, witnessed, or been victimized by school
   violence and gang activity. The substance abuse subpages guide parents
   and others to helpful resources, support groups, publications, and
   organizations. Resources on keeping our schools safe are also provided
   on the site.

   School Violence

   The Department of Justice and the Department of Education have issued a
   guide to help schools and communities prevent school violence. The
   Guide emphasizes early intervention and prevention, and teamwork among
   educators, mental health professionals, parents, and students.
   Safeguarding Our Children: An Action Guide is available at the
   Department of Education's Web site.

   The Department of Justice and the Department of Education also issued a
   guide for parents, educators, and other individuals to help them
   identify early signs of troubling and potentially dangerous behavior.
   Early Warning, Timely Response: A Guide to Safe Schools is available at
   the Department of Education's Web site.

   The FBI has posted The School Shooter: A Threat Assessment Perspective.
   This report presents a model procedure for threat assessment and
   intervention, including a chapter on key indicators that should be
   regarded as warning signs in evaluating threats.

   Additional resources on school violence can be found on the Office of
   Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention and the Office of Justice
   Programs Web sites.

   Gang Violence Prevention

   Information about preventing gang violence is located on the Office of
   Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention and FBI sites:
     * Facts and Figures
     * Programs
     * Publications
     * Research
     * Resources
     * Grants and Funding
     * Calendar of Events

   Especially for parents:
     * Tips for Parents
     * FBI's Gang Alert

   Reducing Drugs in the Neighborhood

   The Drug Enforcement Agency's Get it Straight, The Facts About Drugs,
   explains why drugs are harmful.

   The Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) works
   with the Office of National Drug Control Policy to administer the
   Drug-Free Communities Support Program. Drug-Free Communities Grants
   fund coalitions of young people, parents, media, law enforcement,
   school officials, religious organizations, and other community
   representatives that target young people's use of illegal drugs,
   alcohol, and tobacco. The coalitions also encourage citizen
   participation in substance abuse reduction efforts and disseminate
   information about effective programs.

   Publications on preventing juvenile drug abuse are available on the
   Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention site. Research
   reports on drugs and crime are found on the National Institute of
   Justice and National Criminal Justice Reference Service sites.
   Statistics on drugs and crime are summarized and more detailed data are
   offered on the Bureau of Justice Statistics site.

   What Works--What You Can Do in Your Community

   School and Community Interventions To Prevent Serious and Violent
   Offending describes school and community interventions shown to reduce
   risk factors for drug abuse and serious and violent juvenile (SVJ)
   offending. This Bulletin examines eight types of community
   interventions (citizen mobilization, situational prevention,
   comprehensive citizen intervention, mentoring, afterschool recreation
   programs, policing strategies, policy changes, and mass media
   interventions) and five types of school interventions (structured
   playground activities, behavioral consultation, behavioral monitoring,
   metal detectors, and school wide reorganization). The Department of
   Justice's Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention has
   posted its bulletin in Adobe Acrobat (PDF) and HTML versions.

   The Weed and Seed program is the Department of Justice's premier
   community development initiative. This community-based initiative is an
   innovative and comprehensive multi-agency approach to law enforcement,
   crime prevention, and community revitalization. Communities work with
   their local U. S. Attorneys to develop a Weed and Seed strategy which
   aims to prevent, control, and reduce violent crime, drug abuse, and
   gang activity in targeted high-crime neighborhoods across the country.
   For information about the program's success stories and to learn about
   the steps to official recognition as a Weed and Seed site visit the
   Executive Office for Weed and Seed.

   OJJDP provides technical assistance to communities wishing to implement
   a comprehensive strategy to address juvenile crime. The Comprehensive
   Strategy for Serious, Violent, and Chronic Juvenile Offenders
   incorporates two principal components: preventing children from
   becoming delinquent by focusing prevention programs on at-risk youth,
   and improving the response to delinquent offenders through a system of
   graduated sanctions.

   Preventing Youth Hate Crime: A Manual for Schools and Communities.
   Adobe Acrobat (PDF).

   Get Involved in Crime Prevention suggests ways in which young people
   can become engaged in the fight against crime in their communities.
   Conflict resolution, mentoring, and joining after-school activities are
   among the many ideas discussed at this site, part of the Department's
   Justice for Kids and Youth site.

   The Community Dispute Resolution site offers resources that help
   schools and youth organizations use dispute resolution to solve
   problems.

   Get Help for Your Community--Grants and Other Assistance

   The School-Based Partnership (SBP) grant provides police agencies the
   opportunity to work with schools and community-based organizations to
   address persistent school-related crime problems. All applicants are
   required to focus on one primary school-related crime or disorder
   problem, occurring in or around an elementary or secondary school.
   Specific problems targeted may include the following: Drug Dealing or
   Use on School Grounds, Problems Experienced by Students on the Way to
   and from School, Assault/Sexual Assault, Alcohol Use or Alcohol-Related
   Problems, Threat/Intimidation, Vandalism/Graffiti, Loitering and
   Disorderly Conduct Directly Related to Crime or Student Safety,
   Disputes that Pose a Threat to Student Safety and Larceny.

   The Safe and Drug-Free Schools Program at the Department of Education
   assists community-based agencies to conduct training, demonstrations,
   evaluation, and to provide supplementary services for the prevention of
   drug use and violence among students and youth.

   Afterschool.gov presents information on federal resources for
   supporting children and youth during out-of-school hours.

   Publications

   Youth Violence in America assembles essays that describe recent trends
   in youth violence, develop and test some of the principal theories that
   might help to explain it, and offer advice about interventions.

   Best Practices of Youth Violence Prevention: A Sourcebook for Community
   Action is a Center for Disease Control publication that examines the
   effectiveness of specific violence prevention practices in four key
   areas: parents and families; home visiting; social and conflict
   resolution skills; and mentoring.

   The 2000 Annual Report on School Safety, another joint effort by the
   Departments of Justice and Education, includes national school crime
   data and an overview of state and local crime reporting; examples of
   schools and strategies that are successfully reducing school violence,
   drug use, and classroom disruption; actions that parents can take
   locally to combat school crime; and resources available to schools and
   communities to help create safe, disciplined and drug-free schools. The
   report is available in Adobe Acrobat (PDF) format at the Department of
   Education's Web site.

   Indicators of School Crime and Safety, 2001 presents data on crime at
   school from the perspectives of students, teachers, principals, and the
   general population from an array of sources. A joint effort by the
   Bureau of Justice Statistics and National Center for Education
   Statistics, the report examines crime occurring in school as well as on
   the way to and from school. The report provides the most current
   detailed statistical information to inform the Nation on the nature of
   crime in schools.

   For more information about the Department components that are most
   active in this area, consult the Office of Justice Programs and
   Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office Web sites.


    Last Updated: 11/01/01


                                               Information for Individuals
                                                     and Communities


                           * Consumer Fraud
                           * Disabilities
                           * Discrimination
                           * Dispute Resolution
                           * Domestic Violence
                           * Elder Justice
                           * Immigration Information
                           * Prison & Parole Information
                           * Safe Communities
                           * Youth Violence
                           * Victims of Crime
