http://www.bdcorr.ca.gov/cppd/construction%20grant/rfp_2001/final_rfp_2001.htm

   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS

   ADULT AND JUVENILE

   LOCAL DETENTION FACILITY

   CONSTRUCTION GRANTS

     __________________________________________________________________


                              TABLE OF CONTENTS


   Executive Steering Committee Members

   Revised Timeline of Key Events

   Bidders’ Conference Registration Form

   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS DETAIL

   Summary

   Completion Date

   Limit on Number of Projects/No Funding Priorities

   Juvenile and Adult Facilities (Federal Funds)

   Construction Grant General Requirements

   Regional Facilities

   Grant Funds

   Match

   Cash (Hard) Match

   In-Kind (Soft) Match

   Contract and Accounting for Grant and Match Expenditures

   Board of Supervisors’ Resolution

   Certification Forms

   Technical Requirements Review of Draft Applications

   Funding Application Form and Deadline

   Proposal Assessment Process, Timeline and Awards

   Questions?

   Funding Application Form  (Fill-in Form Word 2000 Version)

   Drug-Free Workplace Certification
        Fill-In Form (Word 2000)

   Nondiscrimination Compliance Criteria
        Fill-In Form (Word 2000)

   General Definitions

   Pre-contractual Requirements After Grant Award

   Contract Requirements

   Proposal Assessment Criteria

   Rating Factor Definitions

   Construction Projection Flow Chart

     __________________________________________________________________

REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS DETAIL

Summary

   As appropriated in the State Budget Act, Chapter 106, Statutes of 2001
   (adjusted to conform to actual available funds), California counties
   are eligible to apply to the Board of Corrections (BOC) for $57,492,828
   in local assistance grants of federal funds made available to the state
   to build and/or expand County juvenile halls and camps, and adult jail
   facilities, as defined in Titles 15 and 24, California Code of
   Regulations.  Not less than $48,868,904 (85 percent) is available for
   County juvenile facility construction (County juvenile halls and County
   juvenile camps).  Up to $8,623,924 (15 percent) is available for County
   jail construction (Type II, III, or IV facilities only; Type 1 jail
   facilities and temporary and court holding facilities projects are not
   eligible for grants).  Both juvenile and adult facility grant projects
   must be used to expand needed facility capacity (add beds) and cannot
   be used for renovation projects.

   This Request for Proposals (RFP) is issued for the State of California
   by the BOC which approved its release on November 15, 2001.  The RFP
   and related information is also available on the BOC website at
   www.bdcorr.ca.gov.  Bidders’ conferences will be held in Sacramento on
   November 30, 2001, and in Ontario on December 5, 2001 (if you wish to
   attend, please register not later than November 26, 2001 – see attached
   registration form for location and time).

   Project proposals must be received at BOC offices, 600 Bercut Drive,
   Sacramento, CA 95814 not later than 5:00 p.m. on March 1, 2002.  Late
   proposals will not be considered.  Grants are expected to be awarded by
   the BOC on May 16, 2002 when it is scheduled to adopt its rank-ordered
   list of projects eligible to receive grants.  Construction must be
   completed not later than September 29, 2006.

   The BOC may reject any or all proposals.  Grants will be awarded to
   selected counties after a competitive evaluation, rating, and ranking
   process.  Please refer to the attached proposal rating factors.
   Separate processes will be used for adult and juvenile facility
   proposals.  Law requires a competitive grant award process.  Some
   meritorious projects may not receive grants if requests exceed
   available funds.

   Counties that receive grants are responsible for design, construction,
   staffing, operation, repair and maintenance of the project in
   accordance with applicable state and federal law, regulation, policy,
   and conditions of contract.  BOC review and approval of plans,
   specifications, or other documents are for the purpose of ensuring
   proper administration of grants and determination of whether the
   proposed construction specifications comply with law, regulation and
   policy.

   Counties have the performance obligation to successfully complete the
   construction project funded by the grant (i.e., proposed scope
   including number of beds to be added, within timelines, built to code
   and standards, and within budget).  Careful cost estimating is critical
   at the proposal stage.  The general scope of work and timetable
   proposed by counties in response to the RFP must be translated after
   grant award into formal architectural drawings and timely construction
   plans that will enable the facility to conform to operational, fire and
   life safety, and physical plant standards as contained in Titles 15,
   19, and 24, California Code of Regulations.  The BOC will not increase
   grant amounts, or approve a reduction in the proposed and accepted
   scope of work, if counties receive higher than expected construction
   bids.  If projects are bid at less cost than the amount of the grant
   award, or are able to be completed at less cost than the amount of the
   grant award, excess grant funds will revert to the state to be used for
   other projects.

   The BOC appointed an Executive Steering Committee (ESC) to guide this
   process, review and rate proposals, and make funding recommendations to
   the BOC (see attached list of ESC members).  In order to maintain
   objectivity and impartiality in making funding recommendations, members
   of the ESC and the BOC request that applicants do not contact them
   about proposals during this process.   Members of the ESC and BOC will
   abstain from participation in discussions or ratings of proposals
   submitted by their County of employment or in situations where they
   have a conflict of interest.  The ESC role is advisory only.  The BOC
   makes all policy and funding decisions.  The timeline and process may
   be changed at any time by the BOC.  Counties will be notified if
   changes or modifications occur.

Completion Date

   Construction projects must be completed not later than September 29,
   2006.  The BOC has no latitude on this date; it is prescribed in the
   State Budget Act (Chapter 106, Statutes of 2001) and in federal grant
   award documents accepted by the state.

Limit on Number of Projects/No Funding Priorities

   Separate proposals must be submitted for juvenile and adult facility
   construction projects.  One single juvenile facility project proposal
   will be accepted from each County.  One single adult facility project
   proposal will be accepted from each County.  Given the limited amount
   of available grant funds, multiple juvenile facility project proposals
   or multiple adult facility project proposals from a County will not be
   accepted.  If a County submits one juvenile facility project proposal
   and one adult facility project proposal, applicants must indicate
   whether ability to proceed on either project, if funded, is contingent
   upon the other project also being funded.

   Applicants may request up to the total amount of funds available for
   juvenile and adult facility projects.  There are no funding set-asides
   or priorities based on County size.

Juvenile and Adult Facilities (Federal Funds)

   Through an "exigent circumstance" declaration by the Legislature, not
   less than $48,868,904 in federal grant funds is available for BOC
   distribution under the Federal Violent Crime Control and Law
   Enforcement Act for the purpose of building or expanding bed space
   capacity in County juvenile halls and County juvenile camp facilities
   (Chapter 106, Statutes of 2001).  Federal program law prohibits the
   confinement of adjudicated violent offenders (regardless of age) in
   local juvenile facility bed space constructed with federal funds [see
   offense types in Welfare and Institutions Code Section 707 (b)].
   Renovation projects are not eligible for grants.

   Up to $8,623,924 in federal grant funds is available for BOC
   distribution under the Federal Violent Crime Control and Law
   Enforcement Act for the purpose of building or expanding bed space
   capacity in County adult jails (Type II, III, or IV facilities only;
   Type 1 facilities and temporary or court holding facilities projects
   are not eligible for grants).  Renovation projects are not eligible for
   grants.

   New juvenile and/or adult facilities can be constructed or existing
   facilities can be expanded.  Counties must ensure that its construction
   plans also include all necessary ancillary space to enable the facility
   to comply with operational, fire and life safety, and physical plant
   standards as contained in Titles 15, 19, and 24, California Code of
   Regulations (e.g., dayrooms, classrooms, dining, showers, recreation,
   etc.).  Ancillary space paid for with grant funds and matching funds
   must be necessitated by the added amount of bed space and must be
   reasonable.  Counties or regions must show a net gain in beds as a
   result of proposed juvenile and adult facility projects (i.e., the
   number of beds added must be greater than the number of beds
   eliminated).  Reasons for eliminating beds must be clearly described in
   the proposal (e.g., outmoded, beyond useful life expectancy,
   safety/security reasons, etc.).  All County proposals are subject to
   federal review and approval on use of funds.

Construction Grant General Requirements

   Counties that receive construction grants shall require its
   construction contractor to post payment and performance bonds, each of
   which shall be in an amount not less than 100 percent of the contract
   price.  The County Agreement for Construction with its construction
   contractor must include state and/or federal recordkeeping,
   non-discrimination, and access requirements.  Construction costs must
   be scheduled by Construction Specification Institute (CSI) Division and
   sub-element.  Contractor profit and inflation factors must be included
   within the CSI Divisions and sub-elements.  Contingency is limited to
   10 percent of grant funds.  In all requests for reimbursement, the
   contractor shall separately list work not eligible for payment with
   grant and matching funds, and the County Construction Administrator
   shall identify such work for the contractor.

   All construction funded under this program must meet the requirements
   as identified in this RFP and enable facilities to maintain compliance
   with safety and security considerations in facility operational
   standards as contained in Title 15, California Code of Regulations;
   fire and life safety standards as contained in Title 19, California
   Code of Regulations; and construction standards, including additional
   fire and life safety standards, as contained in Title 24, California
   Code of Regulations.  The BOC reserves the right to require changes in
   construction materials to enhance facility safety and security if
   materials proposed at the time of final construction plans and
   specifications are not reasonable and customary (as used statewide) for
   facilities of the same security level.

   Please note that the BOC does not grant "variances" to regulations.
   However, "pilot projects" and "alternate means of compliance" (both
   defined in Titles 15 and 24, California Code of Regulations), may be
   proposed if a grantee seeks BOC approval to test a process that will
   "meet or exceed" the intent of a regulation in an innovative way.
   There is no guarantee that the BOC will approve any pilot project or
   alternate means of compliance requests.  If counties, as potential
   grantees, have any concerns about ability to meet standards, or intend
   to request pilot projects or alternate means of compliance, please
   contact your County’s BOC-assigned facility inspector at the earliest
   possible time to discuss feasibility issues and options for proceeding
   before a proposal is submitted.  In addition, the following are
   requirements for projects funded by the BOC:

   Needs Assessment Study/Letter of Intent:  One copy of a formal needs
   assessment study, containing all required data elements as defined in
   Title 24, California Code of Regulations, must be submitted concurrent
   with the funding application form and narrative if a County proposes to
   construct a new facility (proposals to build a new facility that are
   submitted without a needs assessment study will be rejected).  The
   needs assessment study must reflect current needs; this can be an
   update of a previous needs assessment study.   Adding bed space to
   existing facilities does not require a separate needs assessment study,
   but does require a comprehensive targeted summary of need to be
   provided in the proposal narrative.  Proposals submitted to the BOC
   will be considered a “letter of intent” to build, expand, or remodel a
   facility as required by Title 24, California Code of Regulations.

   "Wet" Rooms:   All new BOC-rated single or double-occupancy rooms to be
   added to new or existing juvenile facilities must be constructed as
   "wet" rooms (i.e., each new room must contain a toilet, wash basin and
   water fountain), unless existing facility physical plant and
   infrastructure is unable to support the addition of "wet" rooms.   In
   dormitory settings in juvenile halls, one toilet and wash basin is
   required for every six minors, with at least one water fountain per
   dormitory.  In dormitory settings in juvenile camps, one toilet and
   wash basin is required for every 10 minors, with at least one water
   fountain per dormitory.

   "New Generation" Design:  All new facilities (regardless of size) must
   be built in a "new generation" design style.  New generation is a
   design concept where housing cells, sleeping rooms, or dormitories are
   positioned around the perimeter of a common dayroom forming a
   housing/living unit.  Generally, the majority of services for detainees
   occur in specialized locations of the unit.   New generation design is
   also required for expansion of an existing facility if the BOC-rated
   bed space to be added is 30 or more.  If BOC rated bed space to be
   added to an existing facility is 29 or less, new generation design is
   encouraged, but not required, provided that design does not present
   safety or security concerns.

   Environmental Requirements:  Counties must ensure that the site/project
   complies with the necessary provisions of the California Environmental
   Quality Act (CEQA) prior to the start of construction.  In addition to
   state environmental requirements, all counties (projects) receiving
   federal grant funds must also comply with the provisions of the
   National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to be initiated as part of the
   planning and site selection phase and be completed prior to the start
   of construction.  CEQA/NEPA procedures should be undertaken
   concurrently.   In general, federal NEPA regulations and guidance
   indicates that siting and construction should not have any adverse
   environmental impacts or have an adverse impact on an endangered
   species; projects should not be sited in a floodplain or wetlands
   unless there is no reasonable alternative; and grantees should avoid or
   mitigate negative impacts on historic properties or sites and on low
   income and minority communities.

   Federal regulations and program guidance related to NEPA are available
   upon request to your County’s assigned BOC construction grant field
   representative.  Applicants are strongly encouraged to obtain and
   review the federal NEPA regulations and guidance, and consult in
   advance with BOC staff, before submitting a proposal.   Counties shall
   not begin any NEPA related environmental studies without advance
   notification to and approval of the BOC.  All NEPA related material
   must be sent to the BOC for transmittal to federal officials.  Federal
   regulations prohibit counties from purchasing land, developing or
   approving final plans and specifications, advertising for construction
   bids, accepting bids, or starting construction until counties
   (projects) have received federal environmental clearance and approval.
   Unless federal officials per federal regulation categorically exclude
   the project, at a minimum after grant award, a County will have to
   prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) for federal review and
   approval following applicable public notice and public comment
   protocols.  If a more comprehensive Environmental Impact Statement
   (EIS) is required, it must be prepared under the direct supervision and
   guidance of the BOC as the state grant recipient of federal funds, in
   coordination with federal officials.

   Site Assurance:  Counties cannot purchase land or enter into new site
   lease or use permit arrangements until NEPA environmental work is
   complete and has been approved by federal officials; in these
   circumstances a site assurance is not required by the BOC until that
   process is completed after receiving a grant award.  If counties are
   proposing expansions of existing facilities, or new facilities, to be
   built on county land owned prior to July 1, 2001, counties must submit
   a site assurance attestation to the BOC as specified by Board of
   Supervisors’ resolution at the time a proposal is submitted.  This
   attestation assures that counties have a fee simple or other such
   estate interest in the site of the project and rights of access
   sufficient to assure undisturbed use and possession of the site.
   Counties using an existing site lease or use permit issued prior to
   July 1, 2001 should consult with BOC construction grant staff before
   submitting a proposal.  Federal and state officials must review and
   approve the terms and conditions of any site lease or use permit
   arrangements before grant funds are released.  Counties cannot change
   the terms of the property title, or lease the facility for operation by
   other entities, without permission and instructions from the BOC and
   the U.S. Department of Justice.

   Detention Assessment System/Model:  In awarding grants, state law
   requires the BOC to take into consideration counties “demonstration
   that all appropriate steps to reduce overcrowding have been undertaken
   including, but not limited to, efforts to implement a risk-based
   detention system or other appropriate detention assessment models.”  To
   comply with this requirement, counties are asked to provide information
   in the proposal narrative describing local policies and practices, and
   efforts to implement local systems and models used for making detention
   decisions (to incarcerate or not incarcerate offenders), which have
   been used to reduce overcrowding.

   Jail Grant Funding Prohibition:  Federal requirements prohibit the BOC
   from awarding grants to “local jails which operate ‘pay-to-stay’
   programs.”  Federal officials define this prohibition to mean any local
   jail that operates a program by which extraordinary services, amenities
   and/or accommodations, not otherwise available to the general inmate
   population, are provided, based upon an offender’s apparent ability to
   pay, such that disparate conditions of confinement are created for the
   same or similar offenses within a County.  Federal officials indicate
   that the purpose of this prohibition is to avoid the creation of a
   “privileged class” of offenders.  Further, federal officials indicate
   this is not intended to include those programs that require
   reimbursement from an inmate for the usual costs and available
   amenities associated with per diem room and board during the pendency
   of an inmate’s incarceration.   To qualify for a grant, counties
   submitting adult jail proposals will be asked to provide an assurance
   to the BOC by Board of Supervisors’ resolution at the time a proposal
   is submitted that they do not operate such programs (as defined above
   by federal officials).

   Cost Cap/Beds:  For all projects (new facility construction and
   expansion of existing facilities), the maximum state (federal)
   construction cost-per-bed added cap is $100,500 per state law.  This
   means that the maximum amount of grant funds that can be requested must
   be at or below $100,500 per bed added.  For example, a proposed 30-bed
   new facility (or expansion of an existing facility) would be eligible
   to apply for a maximum grant amount of $3,015,000 ($100,500 X 30).
   “Beds” mean BOC-rated beds that are dedicated to housing offenders for
   which a facility’s single and double occupancy cells/rooms or
   dormitories were planned and designed in conformity to the standards
   and requirements contained in Titles 15 and 24, California Code of
   Regulations (state standards for detention facilities).  Special use
   cells/rooms/units for medical, mental health, disciplinary, holding,
   and safety purposes are not considered in the BOC-bed rated capacity of
   a facility.   Refer to Title 24, California Code of Regulations, or
   contact the BOC for assistance in determining BOC-rated beds.  Grant
   funds (and matching funds) can be used to construct special use
   rooms/units (but are not to be included in the cost cap calculation
   used to determine maximum eligible grant amounts).

   Counties must ensure that its single proposal of its construction plans
   under this grant cost cap also include all necessary ancillary space to
   enable the facility to comply with operational, fire and life safety,
   and physical plant standards as contained in Titles 15, 19, and 24,
   California Code of Regulations (e.g., dayrooms, classrooms, dining,
   showers, recreation, etc.).  Consult in advance with BOC construction
   grant staff if there are any questions regarding cost caps and the
   proposed scope of work.

   On-Site Costs/Sizing to State Standards:  Grant funds and County
   matching funds contained in the state/County grant contract can pay for
   on-site costs of construction (within a reasonable buffer zone
   surrounding the security fence, detention facility, and parking lot)
   with spaces sized to state standards and for “necessary and reasonable”
   detention facility ancillary and administrative space.  Ancillary space
   paid with grant funds and matching funds must be necessitated by the
   added amount of bed space and must be reasonable.  Construction of
   sufficient double occupancy cells/sleeping rooms is encouraged for
   flexibility and to meet long term needs.  Counties must pay for
   ineligible cost items with additional supplemental funds not included
   in County match (e.g., sizing facility spaces beyond state standards;
   moveable equipment and moveable furnishings; constructing off-site
   items such as access roads or utilities development, or for
   constructing other non-detention facility space such as courtrooms,
   probation department offices, County administrative complexes, etc.).
   Ineligible off-site costs are for any construction items/activities
   outside of a reasonable buffer zone surrounding the perimeter of the
   security fence, detention facility, and parking lot.  Supplemental
   funds to pay for off-site and other ineligible costs shall not be
   included in the proposal budget that schedules grant funds and matching
   funds, and will not be included in the state/County grant contract.

   Commitment to Staff and Operate the Facility:  Counties must commit to
   staffing and operating the facility in accordance with state standards
   within 90 days of construction completion.  Counties must indicate the
   number of additional years it will operate the facility (required on
   the funding application form).  Construction grants are subject to
   repayment (with interest) if counties do not meet their commitment to
   continue to operate the detention facility (consistent with the
   Governor’s assurances to the federal government).

Regional Facilities

   Regional facility (multi-county facility) proposals will receive from 0
   to 50 additional rating points.  The ESC conducting proposal ratings
   will determine the number of points based on its analysis of the
   supporting documentation.  Regional facility applications require
   resolutions to be submitted with the proposal from each respective
   County Board of Supervisors in the regional partnership with an
   attached copy of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) or Joint Powers
   Agreement (JPA) between the partner counties.  These agreements must
   identify the terms, conditions, rights, responsibilities and financial
   obligations of all parties in sufficient detail that demonstrates that
   the regional facility will confine offenders from all partner
   counties.   The ESC will review the agreements, including the extent of
   shared responsibility between partner counties, amount of dedicated
   space (which may include seasonal variations due to weather),
   anticipated length of agreement, and termination provisions.  To be
   considered as a regional facility, the agreements must demonstrate more
   than use of vacant beds on a per diem, space available basis.

   The County owner and operator of the site/facility will be designated
   to receive grant funds; this County is formally placed under BOC
   state/County grant contract subject to state and/or federal
   requirements, with the obligation to perform and complete construction,
   and provide the entire required match.  The County under BOC contract
   may enter into legal arrangements, as it deems appropriate, to ensure
   that its regional partners provide a portion of cash to meet its match
   requirements as outlined in the MOU or JPA.   Notwithstanding any
   provision of any contract, MOU, or JPA, the failure of any partner
   County to provide cash to the County under BOC contract does not
   relieve the County under BOC contract from its construction and match
   performance obligations.

Grant Funds

   Grant funds can only be used for activities that occur after the date
   of grant award.  Grant funds must be identified in the application.
   Grants cannot be used to supplant (replace) funds otherwise dedicated
   or appropriated by counties for construction activities.  Project costs
   eligible for grant funding only include:

   1.     Construction of the BOC-approved detention facility project,
   including site preparation.

   2.     Fixed equipment items; e.g. heating, ventilation, air
   conditioning, plumbing, lighting, communications, surveillance,
   security and life/safety equipment, etc. as necessary for the operation
   of the detention facility.

   3.     Fixed furnishings; e.g. built-in and permanently-affixed
   counters, tables, cabinets and seats, etc., as necessary for the
   operation of the detention facility.

   4.     Installation of existing fixed equipment and fixed furnishings
   as necessary for the operation of the detention facility.

   Examples of ineligible costs for which grant funds cannot be used
   include but are not limited to:  purchase, lease or rent of land;
   personnel or operational costs; construction management; architectural
   programming/design; outside landscaping; environmental reports; soil
   and/or water contamination assessment/mitigation; excavation of burial
   sites; moveable furnishings and moveable equipment; off-site costs such
   as access roads, power generation and utilities development; all costs
   attributable to County building permit fees and/or building code
   inspection fees; supplies; bonus payments or interest charges.

Match

   A minimum of twenty-five percent total match is required as described
   in the next sections.  If applicants are unsure if an item is eligible
   as match, please contact BOC staff prior to submitting a proposal.  The
   BOC is the final arbiter of what is allowable as match.

Cash (Hard) Match

   Cash (hard) match can only be used for activities that occur after the
   grant award date.  Cash match must be identified in the application.
   Cash match must be at least one-ninth of the amount of grant funds
   requested (grant amount requested divided by nine).  For example, a
   $1,000,000 grant request would require a minimum cash match of
   $111,111.  Greater than required cash match will be accorded higher
   rating points (to be computed based on the percentage of cash match
   compared to other proposals).  The applicant may provide an unlimited
   amount of cash match above the required minimum.  Cash match applied to
   federal and state grants cannot be used to supplant (replace) funds
   otherwise dedicated or appropriated by counties for construction
   activities.  Cash match cannot be used to pay for salaries/benefits of
   regular employees of the County workforce, but may be used to pay for
   the services of consultants or contractors engaged to perform project
   related services as described below.  Eligible cash match expenditures
   only include costs of:

   1.     Items eligible for grant funding as previously indicated.

   2.     Architectural programming and design (for activities after the
   date of grant award by consultants or contractors).

   3.     Preparation costs for full or focused environmental reports (for
   activities after the date of grant award by consultants or
   contractors).

   4.     Construction management (for activities after the date of grant
   award by consultants or contractors).

   Examples of ineligible costs for which cash match cannot be used
   include but are not limited to: needs assessments, construction
   management and administrative services provided by regular employees of
   the County work force; and architectural or any other services
   performed/conducted prior to the grant award date.

In-Kind (Soft) Match

   In-kind (soft) match can only be used for activities that occur on or
   after July 1, 2001, except for site acquisition cost/land value as
   indicated.  In-kind match must be identified in the application.
   In-kind match cannot exceed the amount of grant funds requested divided
   by 7.2.  For example, in-kind match cannot exceed $138,889 for a
   $1,000,000 grant request.  In-kind match may either be kept at the
   maximum allowable or reduced at the discretion of the applicant for
   each dollar that cash match that is increased beyond the required
   minimum [see cash (hard) match].  In-kind match may be claimed for
   project related costs for activities performed by staff or
   consultants.  Eligible in-kind match only include:

   1.     Items eligible for grant funding and cash match as previously
   indicated (including activities occurring on or after July 1, 2001).

   2.     Audit of grant (staff salary/benefits of independent County
   auditor or services of contracted auditor).

   3.     Needs assessments (staff salary/benefits and consultant costs
   directly related to the project for activities occurring on or after
   July 1, 2001).

   4.     Site acquisition cost for land purchased before July 1, 2001, or
   current fair market land value for the proposed new or expanded
   facility.  (For land anticipated to be purchased after federal NEPA
   approval, you may provide an estimated land cost value that will be
   later adjusted to conform to the actual value.)  This can be claimed
   for on-site land cost/value for new facility construction or on-site
   land cost/value used for expansion of an existing facility.  It cannot
   be claimed for land cost/value under an existing operational detention
   facility.  (If claimed as in-kind match, actual on-site land cost
   documentation or independent appraisal value will be required as a
   precontractual condition before construction starts.)

   5.     County administration (staff salary/benefits directly related to
   the project for activities occurring on or after July 1, 2001).

   6.     Transition planning (staff salary/benefits and consultant
   activities directly related to the project for activities occurring on
   or after July 1, 2001).

Contract and Accounting for Grant and Match Expenditures

   The state/County grant contract is entered into after County
   construction bid award when a notice to proceed is issued and
   construction has begun.  Grant contracts will detail allowable costs
   and provide a line-item budget of grant funds and match [construction
   costs will be listed by Construction Specification Institute (CSI)
   Division and sub-element].  Contingency is limited to a maximum of 10
   percent.  The intent of contingency is to cover unanticipated eligible
   grant costs; a grant budget modification procedure is utilized to move
   contingency funds to eligible CSI Divisions and sub-elements.

   Counties receiving grant awards will receive a one-time credit for
   eligible match identified in grant contracts.  If counties receive
   additional grants in future years, match requirements in place at that
   time must be met.

Board of Supervisors’ Resolution

   A County Board of Supervisors’ resolution must be submitted with the
   proposal containing the information specified in the attached funding
   application form.

Certification Forms

   The attached funding application form contains an assurance statement
   on page one that must be signed by a designated County official. In
   addition, the attached drug-free workplace certification form, and
   nondiscrimination compliance certification form, must also be signed by
   a designated County official and submitted with the proposal.

Technical Requirements Review of Draft Applications

   BOC staff strongly encourages, and is available to provide, technical
   review of draft applications at any time up to two weeks before the
   submittal deadline to determine if the draft application complies with
   state and federal grant requirements.   Reviews are informal in nature,
   non-binding, and limited to staff assessment of compliance with state
   and/or federal grant requirements.  Staff can make no judgment as to
   the merit of draft proposals or how projects will be rated or ranked by
   reviewers.

Funding Application Form and Deadline

   Application must be made on the attached BOC Local Detention Facility
   Construction Grant Funding Application Form, with proposal narrative
   attached as described. The original application and 20 copies (stapled
   or clipped, three hole punched on the left side and two hole punched at
   the top) are required to be submitted to the BOC pursuant to the
   instructions contained in this RFP.  A fully executed Board of
   Supervisors’ resolution (as described), a signed drug-free workplace
   certification form, and a signed nondiscrimination compliance
   certification form, must accompany the application.

   All requirements set forth in this RFP and in the BOC Local Detention
   Facility Construction Grant Funding Application Form must be addressed
   by the applicant.  All applications for funds must be sent to the Board
   of Corrections, 600 Bercut Drive, Sacramento, CA 95814, and postmarked
   not later than midnight, Tuesday, February 26, 2002, or if hand
   delivered or express delivered, received at the Board of Corrections
   office not later than 5:00 p.m., Friday, March 1, 2002.  Not later than
   48 hours after the deadline, applicants are encouraged to contact the
   Board of Corrections to confirm that the application for funds has been
   received (there have been past snafus with the postal service
   delivering proposals to the wrong state agency; use Federal Express or
   United Parcel Service delivery options).

Proposal Assessment Process, Timeline and Awards

   The BOC appointed an Executive Steering Committee (ESC) to guide this
   project. A list of members and a timeline of key events are attached.
   The ESC has provided recommendations on the RFP, including assessment
   criteria to be used to rate applications.  Please review the attached
   proposal rating factors (and note the BOC website address listed there
   that further describes the BOC’s grant proposal evaluation process).

   All applications received under this program will be:  1) reviewed by
   staff for technical compliance with grant requirements; opportunity
   will be given to counties to correct technical compliance deficiencies
   before proposals are sent to the ESC for review; 2) reviewed and rated
   by the ESC; and  3) ranked by the ESC with award recommendations
   developed for presentation to the BOC.

   Counties submitting both juvenile and adult facility proposals must
   indicate whether the ability to proceed, if funded, is contingent upon
   the other proposal also being funded.  Any proposal designated as being
   dependent upon the funding of another proposal will only be funded if
   the dependent proposal also qualifies for funding.

   During the review process, applicants must make scheduled presentations
   of their proposals to the ESC in Sacramento on April 3-5, 2002.  This
   presentation is part of the rating process and also provides the County
   with the opportunity to answer any questions about the project.

   ESC award recommendations will be mailed to applicants on or about
   April 12, 2002, and will be presented to the BOC as an action item for
   funding consideration at its regularly scheduled meeting on May 16,
   2002.  Counties receiving a grant by the BOC are required comply with
   listed precontractual requirements before entering into a formal
   state/County grant contract and before invoices can be paid for
   allowable project costs.

   As previously noted, ESC award recommendations are advisory only; award
   decisions are made by the BOC.  The BOC may reject any or all
   proposals.  The timeline and process may be changed at any time by the
   BOC.  Counties will be notified if proposals are rejected or if
   timeline and process changes occur.

Questions?

   Prior to developing and submitting a proposal, applicants should
   carefully review the entire RFP package and contact BOC staff with any
   questions.  We also encourage applicants to access the BOC website
   www.bdcorr.ca.gov for helpful information related to standards and
   construction issues.

   Applicants that have questions about construction and design issues or
   operational standards compliance issues (Titles 15, 19, and 24,
   California Code of Regulations) should contact the assigned BOC field
   representative that is responsible for the County's biennial detention
   facility inspections.

   Applicants that have questions about the grants information contained
   in this RFP package (including NEPA issues), or who wish to obtain
   technical reviews of draft proposals for compliance with state and
   federal grant requirements, should contact their County’s BOC-assigned
   field representatives responsible for construction grants (Doug Holien,
   dholien@bdcorr.ca.gov, Lisa Gilbert, lgilbert@bdcorr.ca.gov, Mike
   Houghtby, mhoughtby@bdcorr.ca.gov, Susan King, sking@bdcorr.ca.gov, or
   Len Silvey, lsilvey@bdcorr.ca.gov)  or Deputy Director Toni  Hafey, at
   telephone number 916/445-5073, thafey@bdcorr.ca.gov.
