http://www.optometry.ca.gov/Documents/sb_929_bill_20000926_chaptered.pdf

   Senate Bill No. 929 CHAPTER 676 An act to amend Sections 2544, 3041,
   and 3059 of, and to repeal Section 3041.1 of, the Business and
   Professions Code, and to amend Sections 11024, 11026, 11150, and 11210
   of the Health and Safety Code, relating to optometry. [Approved by
   Governor September 24, 2000. Filed with Secretary of State September
   26, 2000.] LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST SB 929, Polanco. Optometry. (1)
   Existing law provides that a technician in the office of a physician or
   an optometrist may fit prescription lenses. This bill would instead
   refer to an assistant and would set forth additional duties that an
   assistant may perform under the direct responsibility and supervision
   of an ophthalmologist or optometrist. (2) Under existing law, the
   practice of optometry includes, among other things, the examination of
   the human eye or eyes, or its or their appendages, and the analysis of
   the human vision system, either subjectively or objectively, and the
   use of pharmaceutical agents for the sole purpose of the examination of
   the human eye or eyes for any disease or pathological condition.
   Existing law allows certified optometrists to diagnose and treat
   certain conditions of the human eye or its appendages, and use
   therapeutic pharmaceutical agents to do so. The State Board of
   Optometry, with the advice and consent of the Division of Allied Health
   Professionals of the Medical Board of California, is also authorized to
   designate the specific topical pharmaceutical agents to be used for
   these purposes. This bill would provide that the practice of optometry
   also includes the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, management, and
   rehabilitation of disorders and dysfunctions of the visual system. This
   bill changes a number of the identified conditions that certified
   optometrists may diagnose and treat, and requires consultation or
   referral to an ophthalmologist under certain circumstances, as
   specified. This bill would also make changes to the list of topical
   pharmaceutical agents that may be used for these purposes, and requires
   optometrists to again refer or consult with ophthalmologists under
   certain circumstances, as specified. In any case where the bill
   requires an optometrist to consult with an ophthalmologist, the
   optometrist is required to maintain a written record in the patient's
   file and furnish a copy upon request by the consulting ophthalmologist,
   and this bill would specify that all collaborations, consultations, and
   referrals be made to an ophthalmologist located 94 Ch. 676 - 2 -
   geographically appropriate to the patient. The bill would also provide
   for certification of optometrists to treat primary open angle glaucoma
   in patients over the age of 18 if certain requirements are met. (3)
   Existing law provides for a Therapeutic Pharmaceutical Agent Advisory
   Committee within the State Board of Optometry to consist of 6 members,
   3 of whom are appointed by the Medical Board of California, and 3 of
   whom are appointed by the State Board of Optometry, as specified. This
   bill would abolish that committee. (4) Existing law imposes education
   and training requirements in order for an optometrist to obtain
   certification for the use of therapeutic pharmaceutical agents and
   requires the board to issue a certificate to those applicants meeting
   the prescribed criteria. It requires certificate holders to complete a
   minimum of 50 hours of continuing education every 2 years if
   legislation is enacted that requires the licensure of optometrists on a
   2-year renewal cycle, and requires, if legislation is not enacted, a
   minimum of 25 hours of continuing education every year. This bill would
   require certificate holders to complete a minimum of 50 hours of
   continuing education every 2 years in order to renew their
   certification, with 35 of those hours being designated for training on
   particular conditions or diseases, as specified. (5) This bill would
   also express the intent of the Legislature that the law governing the
   scope of the practice of optometry not be amended prior to January 1,
   2009, and that no legislation to this effect be introduced prior to
   January 1, 2008, with parties interested in this matter to commence
   negotiations no later than January 1, 2007, on any proposed changes to
   the scope of this practice. The people of the State of California do
   enact as follows: SECTION 1. Nothing in this act shall be construed to
   limit the scope of practice of an optometrist as it existed prior to
   the effective date of this act. SEC. 2. Section 2544 of the Business
   and Professions Code is amended to read: 2544. An assistant in the
   office of a physician and surgeon or optometrist acting under the
   direct responsibility and supervision of the physician and surgeon or
   optometrist may fit prescription lenses. Under the direct
   responsibility and supervision of the ophthalmologist or optometrist,
   an assistant in the office of an ophthalmologist or optometrist may
   also do the following: (a) Prepare patients for examination. (b)
   Collect preliminary patient data, including taking a patient history.
   94 - 3 - Ch. 676 (c) Perform simple noninvasive testing of visual
   acuity, pupils, and ocular motility. (d) Perform automated visual field
   testing. (e) Perform ophthalmic photography and digital imaging. (f)
   Perform tonometry. (g) Perform lensometry. (h) Perform nonsubjective
   auto refraction in connection with subjective refraction procedures
   performed by an ophthalmologist or optometrist. (i) Administer
   cycloplegiacs, mydriatics, and topical anesthetics that are not
   controlled substances, for ophthalmic purposes. (j) Perform pachymetry,
   keratometry, A scans, B scans, and electrodiagnostic testing. SEC. 3.
   Section 3041 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:
   3041. (a) The practice of optometry includes the prevention and
   diagnosis of disorders and dysfunctions of the visual system, and the
   treatment and management of certain disorders and dysfunctions of the
   visual system, as well as the provision of rehabilitative optometric
   services, and is the doing of any or all of the following: (1) The
   examination of the human eye or eyes, or its or their appendages, and
   the analysis of the human vision system, either subjectively or
   objectively. (2) The determination of the powers or range of human
   vision and the accommodative and refractive states of the human eye or
   eyes, including the scope of its or their functions and general
   condition. (3) The prescribing or directing the use of, or using, any
   optical device in connection with ocular exercises, visual training,
   vision training, or orthoptics. (4) The prescribing of contact and
   spectacle lenses for, or the fitting or adaptation of contact and
   spectacle lenses to, the human eye, including lenses which may be
   classified as drugs or devices by any law of the United States or of
   this state. (5) The use of topical pharmaceutical agents for the sole
   purpose of the examination of the human eye or eyes for any disease or
   pathological condition. The topical pharmaceutical agents shall include
   mydriatics, cycloplegics, anesthetics, and agents for the reversal of
   mydriasis. (b) (1) An optometrist who is certified to use therapeutic
   pharmaceutical agents, pursuant to Section 3041.3, may also diagnose
   and exclusively treat the human eye or eyes, or any of its appendages,
   for all of the following conditions: (A) Through medical treatment,
   infections of the anterior segment and adnexa, excluding the lacrimal
   gland, the lacrimal drainage system and the sclera. Nothing in this
   section shall authorize any optometrist to treat a person with AIDS for
   ocular infections. (B) Ocular allergies of the anterior segment and
   adnexa. 94 Ch. 676 - 4 - (C) Ocular inflammation, nonsurgical in cause,
   limited to inflammation resulting from traumatic iritis, peripheral
   corneal inflammatory keratitis, episcleritis, and unilateral
   nonrecurrent nongranulomatous idiopathic iritis in patients over the
   age of 18. Unilateral nongranulomatous idiopathic iritis recurring
   within one year of the initial occurrence shall be referred to an
   ophthalmologist. An optometrist shall consult with an ophthalmologist
   if a patient has a recurrent case of episcleritis within one year of
   the initial occurrence. An optometrist shall consult with an
   ophthalmologist if a patient has a recurrent case of peripheral corneal
   inflammatory keratitis within one year of the initial occurrence. (D)
   Traumatic or recurrent conjunctival or corneal abrasions and erosions.
   (E) Corneal surface disease and dry eyes. (F) Ocular pain, not related
   to surgery, associated with conditions optometrists are authorized to
   treat. (G) Pursuant to subdivision (f), primary open angle glaucoma in
   patients over the age of 18. (2) For purposes of this section,
   ``treat'' means the use of therapeutic pharmaceutical agents, as
   described in subdivision (c), and the procedures described in
   subdivision (e). (c) In diagnosing and treating the conditions listed
   in subdivision (b), an optometrist certified to use therapeutic
   pharmaceutical agents pursuant to Section 3041.3, may use all of the
   following therapeutic pharmaceutical agents exclusively: (1) All of the
   topical pharmaceutical agents listed in paragraph (5) of subdivision
   (a) as well as topical miotics for diagnostic purposes. (2) Topical
   lubricants. (3) Topical antiallergy agents. In using topical steroid
   medication for the treatment of ocular allergies, an optometrist shall
   do the following: (A) Consult with an ophthalmologist if the patient's
   condition worsens 72 hours after diagnosis. (B) Consult with an
   ophthalmologist if the inflammation is still present three weeks after
   diagnosis. (C) Refer the patient to an ophthalmologist if the patient
   is still on the medication six weeks after diagnosis. (D) Refer the
   patient to an ophthalmologist if the patient's condition recurs within
   three months. (4) Topical antiinflammatories. In using topical steroid
   medication for: (A) Unilateral nonrecurrent nongranulomatous idiopathic
   iritis or episcleritis, an optometrist shall consult with an
   ophthalmologist if the patient's condition worsens 72 hours after the
   diagnosis, or if the patient's condition has not resolved three weeks
   after diagnosis. If the patient is still receiving medication for these
   conditions six weeks 94 - 5 - Ch. 676 after diagnosis, the optometrist
   shall refer the patient to an ophthalmologist. (B) Peripheral corneal
   inflammatory keratitis, excluding Moorens and Terriens diseases, an
   optometrist shall consult with an ophthalmologist if the patient's
   condition worsens 48 hours after diagnosis. If the patient is still
   receiving the medication two weeks after diagnosis, the optometrist
   shall refer the patient to an ophthalmologist. (C) Traumatic iritis, an
   optometrist shall consult with an ophthalmologist if the patient's
   condition worsens 72 hours after diagnosis and shall refer the patient
   to an ophthalmologist if the patient's condition has not resolved one
   week after diagnosis. (5) Topical antibiotic agents. (6) Topical
   hyperosmotics. (7) Topical antiglaucoma agents pursuant to the
   certification process defined in subdivision (f). (A) The optometrist
   shall not use more than two concurrent topical medications in treating
   the patient for primary open angle glaucoma. A single combination
   medication that contains two pharmacological agents shall be considered
   as two medications. (B) The optometrist shall refer the patient to an
   ophthalmologist if requested by the patient, if treatment goals are not
   achieved with the use of two topical medications or if indications of
   narrow angle or secondary glaucoma develop. (C) If the glaucoma patient
   also has diabetes, the optometrist shall consult in writing with the
   physician treating the patient's diabetes in developing the glaucoma
   treatment plan and shall notify the physician in writing of any changes
   in the patient's glaucoma medication. The physician shall provide
   written confirmation of such consultations and notifications. (8)
   Nonprescription medications used for the rational treatment of an
   ocular disorder. (9) Oral antihistamines. In using oral antihistamines
   for the treatment of ocular allergies, the optometrist shall refer the
   patient to an ophthalmologist if the patient's condition has not
   resolved two weeks after diagnosis. (10) Prescription oral nonsteroidal
   antiinflammatory agents. The agents shall be limited to three days'
   use. If the patient's condition has not resolved three days after
   diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an
   ophthalmologist. (11) The following oral antibiotics for medical
   treatment as set forth in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of
   subdivision (b): tetracyclines, dicloxacillin, amoxicillin, amoxicillin
   with clavulanate, erythromycin, clarythromycin, cephalexin,
   cephadroxil, cefaclor, trimethoprim with sulfamethoxazole,
   ciprofloxacin, and azithromycin. The use of azithromycin shall be
   limited to the 94 Ch. 676 - 6 - treatment of eyelid infections and
   chlamydial disease manifesting in the eyes. (A) If the patient has been
   diagnosed with a central corneal ulcer and the condition has not
   improved 24 hours after diagnosis, the optometrist shall consult with
   an ophthalmologist. If the central corneal ulcer has not improved 48
   hours after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an
   ophthalmologist. If the patient is still receiving antibiotics 10 days
   after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an
   ophthalmologist. (B) If the patient has been diagnosed with preseptal
   cellulitis or dacryocystitis and the condition has not improved 72
   hours after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an
   ophthalmologist. If a patient with preseptal cellulitis or
   dacryocystitis is still receiving oral antibiotics 10 days after
   diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an
   ophthalmologist. (C) If the patient has been diagnosed with blepharitis
   and the patient's condition does not improve after six weeks of
   treatment, the optometrist shall consult with an ophthalmologist. (D)
   For the medical treatment of all other medical conditions as set forth
   in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), if the
   patient's condition worsens 72 hours after diagnosis, the optometrist
   shall consult with an ophthalmologist. If the patient's condition has
   not resolved 10 days after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the
   patient to an ophthalmologist. (12) Topical antiviral medication and
   oral acyclovir for the medical treatment of the following: herpes
   simplex viral keratitis, herpes simplex viral conjunctivitis and
   periocular herpes simplex viral dermatitis; and varicella zoster viral
   keratitis, varicella zoster viral conjunctivitis and periocular
   varicella zoster viral dermatitis. (A) If the patient has been
   diagnosed with herpes simplex keratitis or varicella zoster viral
   keratitis and the patient's condition has not improved seven days after
   diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an
   ophthalmologist. If a patient's condition has not resolved three weeks
   after diagnosis, the optometrist shall refer the patient to an
   ophthalmologist. (B) If the patient has been diagnosed with herpes
   simplex viral conjunctivitis, herpes simplex viral dermatitis,
   varicella zoster viral conjunctivitis or varicella zoster viral
   dermatitis, and if the patient's condition worsens seven days after
   diagnosis, the optometrist shall consult with an ophthalmologist. If
   the patient's condition has not resolved three weeks after diagnosis,
   the optometrist shall refer the patient to an ophthalmologist. (C) In
   all cases, the use of topical antiviral medication shall be limited to
   three weeks, and the use of oral acyclovir shall be limited to 10 days.
   (13) Oral analgesics that are not controlled substances. 94 - 7 - Ch.
   676 (14) Codeine with compounds and hydrocodone with compounds as
   listed in the California Uniform Controlled Substances Act (Section
   11000 of the Health and Safety Code et seq.) and the United States
   Uniform Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. Sec. 801 et seq.). The use
   of these agents shall be limited to three days, with a referral to an
   ophthalmologist if the pain persists. (d) In any case where this
   chapter requires that an optometrist consult with an ophthalmologist,
   the optometrist shall maintain a written record in the patient's file
   of the information provided to the ophthalmologist, the
   ophthalmologist's response and any other relevant information. Upon the
   consulting ophthalmologist's request, the optometrist shall furnish a
   copy of the record to the ophthalmologist. (e) An optometrist who is
   certified to use therapeutic pharmaceutical agents pursuant to Section
   3041.3 may also perform all of the following: (1) Mechanical epilation.
   (2) Ordering of smears, cultures, sensitivities, complete blood count,
   mycobacterial culture, acid fast stain, and urinalysis. (3) Punctal
   occlusion by plugs, excluding laser, cautery, diathermy, cryotherapy,
   or other means constituting surgery as defined in this chapter. (4) The
   prescription of therapeutic contact lenses. (5) Removal of foreign
   bodies of the cornea, eyelid, and conjunctiva. Corneal foreign bodies
   shall be nonperforating, be no deeper than the anterior stroma, and
   require no surgical repair upon removal. Within the central three
   millimeters of the cornea, the use of sharp instruments is prohibited.
   (6) For patients over the age of 12 years, lacrimal irrigation and
   dilation, excluding probing of the nasal lacrimal tract. The State
   Board of Optometry shall certify an optometrist to perform this
   procedure after completing 10 of the procedures under the supervision
   of an ophthalmologist as confirmed by the ophthalmologist. (7) No
   injections other than the use of an auto-injector to counter
   anaphylaxis. (f) The State Board of Optometry shall grant a certificate
   to an optometrist certified pursuant to Section 3041.3 for the
   treatment of primary open angle glaucoma in patients over the age of 18
   only after the optometrist meets the following requirements: (1)
   Satisfactory completion of a didactic course of not less than 24 hours
   in the diagnosis, pharmacological and other treatment and management of
   glaucoma. The 24-hour glaucoma curriculum shall be developed by an
   accredited California school of optometry. Any applicant who graduated
   from an accredited California school of optometry on or after May 1,
   2000, shall be exempt from the 24-hour didactic course requirement
   contained in this paragraph. 94 Ch. 676 - 8 - (2) After completion of
   the requirement contained in paragraph (1), collaborative treatment of
   50 glaucoma patients for a period of two years for each patient under
   the following terms: (A) After the optometrist makes a provisional
   diagnosis of glaucoma, the optometrist and the patient shall identify a
   collaborating ophthalmologist. (B) The optometrist shall develop a
   treatment plan that considers for each patient target intraocular
   pressures, optic nerve appearance and visual field testing for each
   eye, and an initial proposal for therapy. (C) The optometrist shall
   transmit relevant information from the examination and history taken of
   the patient along with the treatment plan to the collaborating
   ophthalmologist. The collaborating ophthalmologist shall confirm or
   refute the glaucoma diagnosis within 30 days. To accomplish this, the
   collaborating ophthalmologist shall perform a physical examination of
   the patient. (D) Once the collaborating ophthalmologist confirms the
   diagnosis and approves the treatment plan in writing, the optometrist
   may begin treatment. (E) The optometrist shall use no more than two
   concurrent topical medications in treating the patient for glaucoma. A
   single combination medication that contains two pharmacologic agents
   shall be considered as two medications. The optometrist shall notify
   the collaborating ophthalmologist in writing if there is any change in
   the medication used to treat the patient for glaucoma. (F) Annually
   after commencing treatment, the optometrist shall provide a written
   report to the collaborating ophthalmologist about the achievement of
   goals contained in the treatment plan. The collaborating
   ophthalmologist shall acknowledge receipt of the report in writing to
   the optometrist within 10 days. (G) The optometrist shall refer the
   patient to an ophthalmologist if requested by the patient, if treatment
   goals are not achieved with the use of two topical medications, or if
   indications of secondary glaucoma develop. At his or her discretion,
   the collaborating ophthalmologist may periodically examine the patient.
   (H) If the glaucoma patient also has diabetes, the optometrist shall
   consult in writing with the physician treating the patient's diabetes
   in preparation of the treatment plan and shall notify the physician in
   writing if there is any change in the patient's glaucoma medication.
   The physician shall provide written confirmation of the consultations
   and notifications. (I) The optometrist shall provide the following
   information to the patient in writing: nature of the working or
   suspected diagnosis, consultation evaluation by a collaborating
   ophthalmologist, treatment plan goals, expected followup care, and a
   description of the referral requirements. The document containing the
   information 94 - 9 - Ch. 676 shall be signed and dated by both the
   optometrist and the ophthalmologist and maintained in their files. (3)
   When the requirements contained in paragraphs (1) and (2) have been
   satisfied, the optometrist shall submit proof of completion to the
   State Board of Optometry and apply for a certificate to treat primary
   open angle glaucoma. That proof shall include corroborating information
   from the collaborating ophthalmologist. If the ophthalmologist fails to
   respond within 60 days of a request for information from the State
   Board of Optometry, the board may act on the optometrist's application
   without that corroborating information. (4) After an optometrist has
   treated a total of 50 patients for a period of two years each and has
   received certification from the State Board of Optometry, the
   optometrist may treat the original 50 collaboratively treated patients
   independently, with the written consent of the patient. However, any
   glaucoma patients seen by the optometrist before the two-year period
   has expired for each of the 50 patients shall be treated under the
   collaboration protocols described in this section. (g) Notwithstanding
   any other provision of law, an optometrist shall not treat children
   under one year of age with therapeutic pharmaceutical agents. (h) Any
   dispensing of a therapeutic pharmaceutical agent by an optometrist
   shall be without charge. (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of
   law, the practice of optometry does not include performing surgery.
   ``Surgery'' means any procedure in which human tissue is cut, altered,
   or otherwise infiltrated by mechanical or laser means in a manner not
   specifically authorized by this act. Nothing in the act amending this
   section shall limit an optometrist's authority, as it existed prior to
   the effective date of the act amending this section, to utilize
   diagnostic laser and ultrasound technology. (j) All collaborations,
   consultations, and referrals made by an optometrist pursuant to this
   section shall be to an ophthalmologist located geographically
   appropriate to the patient. SEC. 4. Section 3041.1 of the Business and
   Professions Code is repealed. SEC. 5. Section 3059 of the Business and
   Professions Code is amended to read: 3059. (a) It is the intent of the
   Legislature that the public health and safety would be served by
   requiring all holders of licenses to practice optometry granted under
   this chapter to continue their education after receiving their
   licenses. The board shall adopt regulations that require, as a
   condition to the renewal thereof, that all holders of licenses submit
   proof satisfactory to the board that they have informed themselves of
   the developments in the practice of optometry occurring since the
   original issuance of their licenses by 94 Ch. 676 - 10 - pursuing one
   or more courses of study satisfactory to the board or by other means
   deemed equivalent by the board. (b) The board may, in accordance with
   the intent of this section, make exceptions from continuing education
   requirements for reasons of health, military service, or other good
   cause. (c) If for good cause compliance cannot be met for the current
   year, the board may grant exemption of compliance for that year,
   provided that a plan of future compliance that includes current
   requirements as well as makeup of previous requirements is approved by
   the board. (d) The board may require that proof of compliance with this
   section be submitted on an annual or biennial basis as determined by
   the board. (e) The board may adopt regulations to require licensees to
   maintain current certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
   Training required for the granting or renewal of a cardiopulmonary
   certificate shall not be credited towards the requirements of
   subdivision (a) or (f). (f) An optometrist certified to use therapeutic
   pharmaceutical agents pursuant to Section 3041.3 shall complete a total
   of 50 hours of continuing education every two years in order to renew
   his or her certificate. Thirty-five of the required 50 hours of
   continuing education shall be on the diagnosis, treatment, and
   management of ocular disease as follows: 12 hours on glaucoma, 10 hours
   on ocular infections; five hours on inflammation and topical steroids;
   six hours on systemic medications and two hours on the use of pain
   medications. (g) The board shall encourage every optometrist to take a
   course or courses in pharmacology and pharmaceuticals as part of his or
   her continuing education. (h) The board shall consider requiring
   courses in child abuse detection to be taken by those licensees whose
   practices are such that there is a likelihood of contact with abused or
   neglected children. (i) The board shall consider requiring courses in
   elder abuse detection to be taken by those licensees whose practices
   are such that there is a likelihood of contact with abuse or neglected
   elder persons. SEC. 6. Section 11024 of the Health and Safety Code is
   amended to read: 11024. ``Physician,'' ``dentist,'' ``podiatrist,''
   ``pharmacist,'' ``veterinarian,'' and ``optometrist'' means persons who
   are licensed to practice their respective professions in this state.
   SEC. 7. Section 11026 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:
   11026. ``Practitioner'' means any of the following: (a) A physician,
   dentist, veterinarian, podiatrist, or pharmacist acting within the
   scope of a project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section
   128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 94 - 11 - Ch. 676 107, a
   registered nurse acting within the scope of a project authorized under
   Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of
   Division 107, a nurse practitioner acting within the scope of Section
   2836.1 of the Business and Professions Code, or a physician assistant
   acting within the scope of a project authorized under Article 1
   (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107
   or Section 3502.1 of the Business and Professions Code, or an
   optometrist acting within the scope of Section 3041 of the Business and
   Professions Code. (b) A pharmacy, hospital, or other institution
   licensed, registered, or otherwise permitted to distribute, dispense,
   conduct research with respect to or to administer a controlled
   substance in the course of professional practice or research in this
   state. (c) A scientific investigator, or other person licensed,
   registered, or otherwise permitted, to distribute, dispense, conduct
   research with respect to, or administer, a controlled substance in the
   course of professional practice or research in this state. SEC. 8.
   Section 11150 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read: 11150.
   No person other than a physician, dentist, podiatrist, or veterinarian,
   or pharmacist acting within the scope of a project authorized under
   Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of
   Division 107, a registered nurse acting within the scope of a project
   authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter
   3 of Part 3 of Division 107, a nurse practitioner acting within the
   scope of Section 2836.1 of the Business and Professions Code, a
   physician assistant acting within the scope of a project authorized
   under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3
   of Division 107 or Section 3502.1 of the Business and Professions Code,
   or an optometrist acting within the scope of Section 3041 of the
   Business and Professions Code, or an out-of-state prescriber acting
   pursuant to Section 4005 of the Business and Professions Code shall
   write or issue a prescription. SEC. 9. Section 11210 of the Health and
   Safety Code is amended to read: 11210. A physician, surgeon, dentist,
   veterinarian, or podiatrist, or pharmacist acting within the scope of a
   project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of
   Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107, or registered nurse acting within
   the scope of a project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with
   Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107, or physician
   assistant acting within the scope of a project authorized under Article
   1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division
   107, or an optometrist acting within the scope of Section 3041 of the
   Business and Professions Code may prescribe for, furnish to, or
   administer controlled substances to his or her patient when the patient
   is suffering from a disease, ailment, injury, or infirmities 94 Ch. 676
   - 12 - attendant upon old age, other than addiction to a controlled
   substance. The physician, surgeon, dentist, veterinarian, or
   podiatrist, or pharmacist acting within the scope of a project
   authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter
   3 of Part 3 of Division 107, or registered nurse acting within the
   scope of a project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section
   128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107, or physician assistant
   acting within the scope of a project authorized under Article 1
   (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division
   107, or an optometrist acting within the scope of Section 3041 of the
   Business and Professions Code shall prescribe, furnish, or administer
   controlled substances only when in good faith he or she believes the
   disease, ailment, injury, or infirmity requires the treatment. The
   physician, surgeon, dentist, veterinarian, or podiatrist, or pharmacist
   acting within the scope of a project authorized under Article 1
   (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division
   107, or registered nurse acting within the scope of a project
   authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section 128125) of Chapter
   3 of Part 3 of Division 107, or physician assistant acting within the
   scope of a project authorized under Article 1 (commencing with Section
   128125) of Chapter 3 of Part 3 of Division 107, or an optometrist
   acting within the scope of Section 3041 of the Business and Professions
   Code shall prescribe, furnish, or administer controlled substances only
   in the quantity and for the length of time as are reasonably necessary.
   SEC. 10. It is the intent of the Legislature that the law governing the
   scope of practice of optometry shall not be amended prior to January 1,
   2009, and that no legislation to this effect be introduced prior to
   January 1, 2008. However, the Legislature intends that parties who are
   interested in the scope of practice of optometrists commence
   negotiations on any proposed changes to the law governing this practice
   no later than January 1, 2007. O 94
