http://clear.search.gov/pointer_page.html

                               Access America
                    Updated 9 AUG 1999 Comments welcome!
                  http://clear.search.gov/pointer_page.html

                    Clearinghouse for Government Information

         Agency search pages accessible one-at-a-time via hyperlinks

                      (based on a list compiled by GPO)

   Agency for International Development (USAID) Agency for Health Care
   Policy and Research Agricultural Marketing Service Agriculture Dept.
   Agriculture Research Service Air Force Animal and Plant Health
   Inspection Service Bureau of Labor Statistics
   Bureau of Land Management Bureau of Transportation Statistics Census
   Bureau Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
   Commerce Dept. Congress (legislative info via THOMAS) Congressional
   Budget Office Consumer Product Safety Commission
   Customs Service (via Treasury search engine) Defense Dept. Economic
   Research Service Education Dept.
   Employment Training Administration Energy Dept. Energy Efficiency and
   Renewable Energy Network Energy Information Administration
   Environmental Protection Agency Farm Service Agency Federal Aviation
   Administration Federal Communications Commission
   Federal Deposit Insurance Commission Federal Emergency Management
   Agency Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Federal Judiciary (U.S.
   Courts homepage)
   Federal Railway Adminstration Federal Trade Commission Federal Transit
   Administration FedStats (Interagency Council on Statistical Policy)
   Fish and Wildlife Service Foreign Agricultural Service Forest Service
   General Services Administration
   Geological Survey Government Information Exchange Health & Human
   Services Dept. Health Care Financing Administration
   Housing & Urban Development Dept. Interior Dept. Internal Revenue
   Service Justice Dept.
   Labor Dept. Library of Congress Mine Safety and Health Administration
   NASA Technical Reports Server
   National Agricultural Statistics Service (via Cornell) National Center
   for Health Statistics National Credit Union Administration National
   Endowment for the Arts
   National Endowment for the Humanities National Highway Traffic Safety
   Administration National Institutes of Health National Institute of
   Standards and Technology
   National Library of Medicine National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration National Park Service National Science Foundation
   National Space Science Data Center National Technical Information
   Service (FedWorld) National Telecommunications and Information
   Administration Nuclear Regulatory Commission
   Office of Justice Programs Patent and Trademark Office (patent
   searches) Postal Service President
   Senate Small Business Administration Social Security Administration
   State Dept.
   Transportation Dept. Treasury Dept. Veterans Affairs Dept. White House
