http://www.nas.nasa.gov/About/Education/education.html

   text-based alphabetical index Skip to content
                                 [TopBarRow2.gif] StaffDirectory Search
                                 [TopBarRow3.gif]

   Home
   AboutNAS
   NASProfile
   InformationPwrGrid
   WorkingWithUs
   GridpointsMagazine
   MediaResources
   educational resources
   ResearchNTechnology
   UserServices
   [NavBarBottomPt1.gif]
   ContactUs
   Feedback
   Sitemap
   Help
   [NavBarBottomPt2.gif]

   Educational Resources

   Photo of Space Shuttle lift-off The NAS staff—many with advanced
   degrees in computer science, physics, mathematics, and chemistry—is
   committed to supporting NASA's educational programs. Often, we
   communicate the results of our information technology work to the
   general public through feature stories and press releases, and
   information in these stories can be used to lend credence to homework
   assignments and science projects.

   Because our division's main focus is high performance computing, we
   generally do not publish educational materials about other NASA-related
   topics, such as the Space Shuttle and Mars exploration. However, many
   other NASA organizations specialize in providing those resources.
   Here’s a sampling of NASA web sites with information for both students
   and teachers.

   Aerodynamics In Car Racing
   Aerodynamic efficiency is the goal of all race car designers. It is the
   most important element in developing a competitive race car.

   Stratospheric Ozone Depletion
   This is a resource file for both teachers and students interested in
   the ozone layer. Stratospheric ozone depletion is a concern because the
   ozone layer in the stratosphere keeps 95-99% of the suns ultraviolet
   radiation from striking the earth

   Earth Observatory Study
   Monitor regional and global changes on our planet almost as they
   happen. Offers current insights from field scientists about Earth
   sciences.

   Learning Technologies Project
   The goal of NASA’s Learning Technologies Project (LTP) is to promote
   the growth of a national information infrastructure using the vast
   amount of information NASA has acquired. Access to scientific
   databases, products, and tools for K-14 education.

   Mars Global Surveyor Site
   The place to go for up-to-date information about the "Red Planet."
   Lessons and activities for K-12 students.

   Mars Millennium Project
   Co-sponsored by government, industry, and academic organizations. Chat
   "live" with scientists, get lesson plans, and tour the virtual gallery
   of images.

   NASA Education Program
   NASA’s Education Program is chartered to aid in conceiving, directing,
   and implementing education activities between NASA and the educational
   community. This site has resources for educators and students.

   NASA’s Frequently Asked Questions
   Answers questions about the space program, the Space Shuttle, our solar
   system, and other space-related topics..

   NASA For Kids
   Facts and online activities for kids. Subjects include airplanes,
   planets, space travel, stars and galaxies.

   NASA Human Spaceflight
   The history of spaceflight and news about current missions. Topics
   include the Space Shuttle, the Space Station, and Mars.

   NASA Spacelink
   A virtual library of files and NASA web links, arranged in a manner
   familiar to educators. Use the Spacelink search engine to find
   information located on any NASA website. Check out the site's "Hot
   Topic" and "Cool Picks" areas.

   NASA Ames Research Center: Kids & Teachers
   Feature articles and interactive areas about space exploration and the
   principles of flight are presented.

   NASA Ames Research Center Space Settlement Contest
   Annual contest encouraging understanding of concepts for living and
   traveling in space. Students and teachers explore science, design, and
   social issues together in order to create a vision of their own space
   settlement.

   Obtaining NASA Educational Material and Equipment
   NASA’s Education Division offers teachers several ways to obtain
   curriculum materials online, plus information on how to get surplus
   computer equipment.

   QUEST: Internet in the Classroom
   QUEST’s mission is to provide support and services for schools,
   teachers, and students to get the most from the Internet and its
   underlying information technologies. Features live online chats and
   other online interactive projects.

   QUEST Online Educational Resources
   Extensive listings of online resources for teachers and students.

   Touch the Universe
   A NASA Braille Book of Astronomy, by Noreen Grice. Some of the most
   majestic space images from NASA's Hubble Space Telescope are now part
   of a special Braille book that combines tactile illustrations with
   striking images of planets, star clusters and nebulae, as viewed by
   Hubble.



Curator: Jill Dunbar

                                                                Last Update: August 27, 2001

NASA Official: William J Feiereisen
