http://www.business.gov/busadv/maincat.cfm?catid=18

   US Business Advisor Logo
   US Business Advisor Logo Register Your Trademark Online
   SBA Helps Small Businesses Fight Costs of Drugs and Alcohol in the
   Workplace
   Entrepreneurs from Oregon, Florida, Alabama and Pennsylvania are
   finalists for National Small Business Person of the Year.
   Online Seminar for Small Businesses to do business on the Internet
   BUSINESSES HURT BY RESERVIST CALL-UPS MAY APPLY FOR SBA ECONOMIC INJURY
   DISASTER LOANS
   SBA PRESENTS LOAN CHECKS TO NEW YORK DIASTER VICTIMS
   ASSISTANCE FOR NEW YORK TERRORISM VICTIMS
   SBA ENCOURAGES ELIGIBLE SMALL BUSINESSES ACROSS THE COUNTRY TO SEEK
   ECONOMIC IMPACT DISASTER LOANS
   SBA Launches New Web Site Businesslaw.gov
   [USEMAP:top_nav.gif]
        Banner Image, for Busines Advisor January
                                          30
   Banner Image, for Busines Advisor


   . Becoming a successful business takes time, energy, motivation, and a
   bit of luck. Getting an idea, testing an idea, finding the right people
   and help, locating access to capital and credit, understanding and
   using technology, and planning ahead are just a few of the steps to the
   process. Throughout the various stages of the business lifecycle --
   starting, financing, expanding, training and counseling, management
   assistance, advocacy, and eventually closing a business -- the right
   help at the right time can make all the difference between failure and
   success. Besides access to capital and credit, business owners need
   management and technical assistance, training and education, counseling
   and user-friendly access to information all along the way. For a quick
   review of a web site for business-related help at your state level,
   click here .
   .
   *  Business Development
   + - Starting Your Business
   - Expanding Your Business
   - Training/ Counseling Your Busin
   - Advocating For Your Business
   + - Getting Out of Business
   *  Financial Assistance
   *  Workplace Issues
   *  Taxes
   *  Laws and Regulations
   *  International Trade
   *  Buying and Selling
   *  Info Desk
   *  E-Services
   *  Agencies & Gateways
   Top left corner divider Top right corner divider help
   Left Separator Business Development

   Online Counseling
   Access a retired business executive (SCORE volunteer)online to answer
   your business question.

   American Express Small Business Site
   Small business network created by American Express.

   USPS Tools to Help Small Businesses
   Tools to help small businesses get more customers, meet customer
   demands, and keep your customers.

   SBA Offices and Services
   Find out where to go for SBA and SBA resource partner assistance.

   Researching a Company
   Use EDGAR to find information on a company. Additionally, you may use
   Hoovers Online or Dunn and Bradstreet , both fee for service business
   search services.

   SBDC Training and Counseling
   Over 1,000 Small Business Development Centers and subcenters around the
   country provide business development assistance.

   SCORE Counseling
   Over 13,000 Service Corps of Retired Executives are available for
   business development assistance, both online and in person.

   State and Local Gateway
   Links to important information by topic by state.

   Fortune Small Business Resource Guide
   Useful information on grants, financial assistance, and business
   development help.

   Securities and Exchange Commission, EDGAR Database
   Search EDGAR, the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval
   system, performs automated collection, validation, indexing,
   acceptance, and forwarding of submissions by companies and others who
   are required by law to file forms with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
   Commission (SEC).

   State/local Government Business links
   A list of one site per state for business. For larger listing of
   State/local links on the net, click here or State Search. Or for access
   to state links for laws and regulations that affect business, go to the
   state and local gateway in BusinessLaw.gov

   Fortune Small Business Magazine
   Online magazine for small businesses published by Fortune.

   Information Centre for Entrepreneurship Library
   Part of Jönköping University Library, this site has one of Europe's
   largest collections in the fields of entrepreneurship, innovations and
   small and medium-sized enterprises.

   Forbes Small Business Center
   For owners and managers of small firms from Forbes.com magazine.

   National Federation of Independent Businesses

   Benchmarkme
   A free tool to compare your business performance with selective
   benchmarks.

   Search


   Business Development  |  Financial Assistance  |  Taxes  |  Laws and
   Regulations
   International Trade  |  Workplace Issues  |  Buying and Selling  |
   Agencies and Gateways
   E-Services  |  Info Desk  |  How do I?  |  Tour the Site  |  Learn the
   Internet  |  Privacy Statement

   Home  |  Search  |  About Us  |  What's New  |  Site Map  |  Contact
   Us  |  Forms  |  FAQ's

    The structure of this page was last modified: 08/02/2001 03:26:24 PM

   *
