http://nsipp.gsfc.nasa.gov/research/sci_team/sci_team.html

     link to NASA page NASA Seasonal-to-Interannual Prediction Project
     site map research experimental predictions model data requests
   education and outreach NSIPP main page

   NSIPP Science Team

     In November 1998, a Science Team of 8 funded collaborations was
   chosen from a competitive response to an Announcement of Opportunity to
   collaborate with and support the NSIPP core effort at Goddard. An
   introductory Science Team Meeting was held in May, 1999. Additional
   science team members were added from the GMAP NRA in 1999. The second
   Science team meeting was held July 11-12, 2000. NSIPP also funds
   collaborations essential to the core effort.

     CGCM and AGCM Diagnostics
     Grant Branstator, NCAR and M. Chen, Iowa State University, Diagnosis
   and simulation of the South-east Asian-induced wavetrain that occurs
   during tropical Pacific cold and warm events.

   Sumant Nigam, University of Maryland, Dynamical diagnosis of the NSIPP
   atmospheric and coupled model simulations.

   John Roads, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, Seasonal and
   Atmospheric predictions.

   Chunzai Wang, NOAA/AOML/U. Miami, Studies of western Pacific
   Interannual Anomaly patterns toward improved ENSO prediction.

   David Neelin, IGPP, UCLA, Sensitivity of Precipitation in Coupled
   Land-Atmosphere models.

   Richard Kleeman, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, NYU, An
   investigation of the predictability of the NSIPP forecast system.

   Ping Chang and B. Giese, TAMU, and R. Saravanan, NCAR, Modeling
   Tropical Atlantic Variability.

     Land Surface Model Development and Land Data Assimilation Diagnostics
     Paul Houser, GSFC, and Jay Famiglietti, University of Texas, Optimal
   land initialization for seasonal climate predictions.

     Ocean Data Assimilation and Coupled Forecasting
     Eugenia Kalnay, University of Maryland, Ensemble ocean-atmosphere
   perturbations with growing ENSO modes using breeding.

   Thorsten Markus, JCET/GSFC/UMBC, Improved Surface Heat and Salt Fluxes
   at polar latitudes through the assimilation of satellite measurements.

     Ocean Model Development
     William Dewar, Florida State University, Thermodynamics in layered
   models.

     NSIPP Associate Investigators
     Paul Schopf, George Mason University, Development of the Poseidon
   Ocean Model for NSIPP.

   Marc Stieglitz, Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory, Land surface model
   development for NSIPP.
     Privacy Statement
   Responsible NASA Official: David Adamec
   Site Implementation: Lori Tyahla
   Send comments to: webadmin@nsipp.gsfc.nasa.gov
