http://clear.search.gov/partner.html

                    Government Information Clearinghouse
 Updated 28 APR 2000 Comments welcome!  http://clear.search.gov/partner.html

   A public/private partnership is established at the U.S. Federal level
   in support of a Government Information Clearinghouse. This draft
   document (principal author: Eliot Christian of the U.S. Geological
   Survey) gives a general description of the Partnership. Organizations
   involved in design of Clearinghouse and the Partnership Agreement is
   available in addition to the guiding "Presidential Directive on
   Electronic Government (17 December 1999)", as well as other documents
   and materials.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                [Image6.jpg]

                                  Partner's
                                    Guide
                             to the U.S. Federal
                    Government Information Clearinghouse

                                  Foreword

   This Guide describes basic elements of the United States Federal
   Government Information Clearinghouse, including goals, technical
   design, and governing policies. This Guide touches on external
   coordination and lists some initiatives using interoperable standards
   and technology.

   This Guide references current standards and technology as implemented
   in data and information systems on the public Internet. A separate
   "Interface Guide" gives information on how to link data or information
   resources to and from Clearinghouse.

   The Global Information Locator Service (GILS) Profile of the
   international standard for information search and retrieval (ISO 23950)
   is of strategic importance in Clearinghouse. Other strategic components
   include recommendations of the World Wide Web Consortium such as the
   eXtensible Markup Language (XML).

   This Guide gives examples of production systems to suggest the wide
   range of systems already implemented or currently in progress. Although
   specific commercial and freeware products are named, this guide does
   not endorse any particular product.

   Clearinghouse will unfold on a scale of 20 years or more. The Partners
   who become most involved will largely determine its future evolution.
   All are strongly encouraged to be active in any aspects, whether
   technology, standards, policy, community organizing, outreach, etc.
     __________________________________________________________________

Table of Contents

   Background
   What is Clearinghouse?
       What is the scope of Clearinghouse?
       Why is a Clearinghouse needed?
       How does Clearinghouse make information easier to find?
       What are Clearinghouse locator records?
       How will Clearinghouse classify information resources?

   The Clearinghouse Partnership
   How is Clearinghouse organized?
       How does this relate to other Federal laws and policies?
       How does Clearinghouse relate to external organizations?
       What does a Clearinghouse Partner agree to?

   Appendix A: What is GILS?

   Appendix B: Locator Record Elements

   Appendix C: Clearinghouse Collections Policy

   Appendix D: U.S. Law and Policy for Federal Agencies

   Glossary
     __________________________________________________________________

                                 Background

  What is Clearinghouse?

   The goals of the United States Federal Government Information
   Clearinghouse ("Clearinghouse") are:
     (1) to help people easily locate and access U.S. Federal Government
   information and electronic services, and,
     (2) to encourage the use of standards to create and expand access for
   information and on-line services.

   Clearinghouse allows for organizing data content across organizations
   and cuts across agency system boundaries. It facilitates use of
   Information Infrastructure standards that serve agency and public
   access mandates by providing a common utility for people to find
   government information and services.

  What is the scope of Clearinghouse?

   Clearinghouse encompasses all information and services compiled or
   organized by any source that uses the adopted standards and policies.
   This includes all Federal government information on public Web pages,
   whether publicized through a government agency or other intermediary.

   There are already a number of "portals" to Clearinghouse, and many more
   will be established, in the private as well as the public sector.
   Federal agency portals include, for example: the Government Printing
   Office "GPO Access" facility, the National Spatial Data Infrastructure
   Clearinghouse for Geospatial Data, the National Biological Information
   Infrastructure Metadata Clearinghouse, DoD DefenseLink, and the
   "WebGov" facility being prototyped by the General Services
   Administration.

   Because of the interoperable standards adopted for Clearinghouse, many
   other facilities can be easily incorporated, including information
   resources of Department of Energy, Library of Congress, National
   Aeronautics and Space Administration, National Library of Medicine,
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Patent and Trademark
   Office, U.S. Geological Survey, and a wide range of other agency and
   multi-agency facilities such as the various "one-stop-shop" Web sites.
   Private sector interest in portals for Electronic Government has
   included corporations such as America Online, Environmental Systems
   Research Institute, the Internet Archive, and Oracle.

  Why is a Clearinghouse needed?

   Huge volumes and wide diversity in U.S. Federal Government information
   present fundamental challenges to making information and services easy
   to find and use. The low cost of Internet publishing has resulted in
   many thousands of information outlets. These range from simple delivery
   of ready-to-view documents to complex information services backed up by
   forms and sophisticated databases. Besides the rapid Internet
   evolution, there is a ongoing need to help people find government
   information that is not Internet-accessible. This includes telephone
   advice, paper media, CD-ROM's, electronic bulletin boards, and many
   others data types and services.

  How does Clearinghouse make information easier to find?

   The Clearinghouse assumption is that people already know a few simple
   bibliographic concepts like Title, Author, and Subject, and are
   familiar with organizing mechanisms like catalogs and directories.
   Clearinghouse "locator records" help users find information, just as
   library catalog records help people find books. Catalogers or authors
   can place such "descriptive metadata" in Web pages or other documents,
   or into large and complex databases. Internet content providers can
   offer locator records over the Internet.

   Today, information services worldwide routinely use such bibliographic
   techniques to characterize not only books but also electronic mail
   messages, news articles, community resources, government agencies,
   museum artifacts, and spatial data, among others. Intermediaries and
   searchers find and retrieve information by getting such locator records
   through Web browsers and gateways. Where available, locator records
   provide a powerful way to find content throughout Clearinghouse.

   Clearinghouse uses the Internet infrastructure, including the
   international standard Global Information Locator Service (GILS) and
   other standards. (GILS is briefly described in Appendix A.)
   Clearinghouse is therefore not specific to government information,
   rather it is part of the pervasive information infrastructure.

  What are Clearinghouse locator records?

   Clearinghouse locator records are similar to records in catalogs,
   libraries and information services worldwide (e.g., Appendix B). This
   means that people can search many hundreds of catalogs and directories
   without switching between interfaces. A Clearinghouse search mechanism
   would work whether a searcher starts at a federal site or other
   facilities like public libraries or commercial services.

   The cost of developing a quality locator record for an information
   resource or services is decreasing with improvements in machine-aided
   cataloging. Yet, even a cost of $1 per record is a daunting expense
   when scaled to hundreds of millions of Web pages. A sensible approach
   is to concentrate expensive human cataloging at the level of
   high-profile or off-line resources like public relations offices, "800"
   numbers, agency Web home pages and major Web sites. Inexpensive "Web
   crawler" indexing using online text and metadata is an appropriate way
   to index rapidly changing or less popular Web pages.

  How will Clearinghouse classify information resources?

   In addition to catalog searching for specific information or services,
   searchers are often interested in locating a range of information
   resources associated with a subject area. A "browse tree" is a
   clustering metaphor, and it provides a commonly understood mechanism
   for searchers to navigate from one subject to a broader, narrower,
   or related subject.

   There is today no universally accepted classification scheme that would
   enable all searchers to browse a common tree of subjects across the
   range of U.S. Federal Government information and services. This will be
   an active area of research and collaboration among Clearinghouse
   Partners.

   Clearinghouse will likely support multiple organizing approaches,
   including Classification Schemes (also known as "thesauri",
   "taxonomies", and sometimes "ontologies".) A hierarchical organization
   of the U.S. Federal Government agencies could follow the structure
   given in the U.S. Government Manual. "Place" is another common
   organizing principle for government information. Clearinghouse can
   build on work in this area by the National Spatial Data Infrastructure.
   Type of service could be another organizing view, perhaps in a similar
   way to the telephone directory "blue pages" in many U.S. cities. To
   simplify use by librarians and other information specialists, one could
   apply Library of Congress Subject Headings.
   [Image7.gif]

                        The Clearinghouse Partnership

  How is Clearinghouse organized?

   Clearinghouse encompasses all information and services from any source
   that complies with Clearinghouse interface standards and policies.
   Those standards and policies are delineated by the Clearinghouse
   Partnership Organization, a consortium of government and non-government
   organizations.

   Anyone and any organization can make information accessible using
   Clearinghouse standards and policies without joining the Partnership
   Organization.

   The Partnership Organization should include U.S. Federal Government
   partners such as the General Services Administration, the National
   Partnership for Reinventing Government, the Chief Information Officers
   Council, the Government Printing Office, and the Library of Congress,
   among others. The Partnership Organization will also include Partners
   outside the U.S. Federal Government such as private sector corporations
   and consortia; non-government organizations and representatives of the
   public interest; voluntary standards organizations, and experts in
   academia.
   [Image12.gif]

   The Partnership Organization will meet semiannually, to establish or
   modify policy and guidelines for Clearinghouse. Membership in the
   Clearinghouse Partnership Organization is voluntary.

  How does this relate to other Federal laws and policies?

   Certain laws and policies bind all U.S. Federal agencies. These include
   equity and permanence of public access, privacy, security, records
   management, Freedom of Information, Americans with Disabilities,
   Federal Depository Library, OMB Circular A-130, and OMB Memorandum
   98-5. Although U.S. Federal agencies can contract support for public
   access to Government information, they cannot delegate statutory
   responsibilities. Agencies must provide open and equal access, and
   cannot grant "copyright-like" or exclusive privileges to their public
   material.

   A public document called the "Clearinghouse Collections Policy" will
   express specific policies guiding Clearinghouse content. This policy
   specifies how Clearinghouse Partners offer Government information and
   comply with various intellectual property, privacy, security, and other
   constraints concerning public access to Government information.

   Appendix C outlines some of the policy considerations affecting all
   Clearinghouse Partners. Appendix D presents some further considerations
   for U.S. Federal agencies.

  How does Clearinghouse relate to external organizations?

   The Clearinghouse Partnership will coordinate with other government
   entities, including U.S. States, tribal and local governments, other
   national governments, and some international organizations such as
   agencies of the United Nations. The Clearinghouse Partnership must
   establish and maintain coordination with related initiatives.

   There are a wide range of initiatives that are following policies and
   standards related to Clearinghouse. Table 1 is a list of list of some
   examples at various levels of government.

                        National and International -
    Australia, Canada, Committee on Earth Observing Satellites, Colombia,
       Consortium for International Earth Science Information Network,
      Digital Earth, European Environment Agency, European Legislative
          Virtual Library, Finland, France, Germany, Global Change
     Master Directory, Global Environmental Information Locator Service,
   Global Forest Information Service, G8 Global Inventory Project, Global
   Spatial Data Infrastructure, Greece, Health Information Locator Service
       for Latin America and the Caribbean, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
      InterAmerican Biodiversity Information Network, Japan, Kiribati,
   Malaysia, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nordic Web Index, Northern
        Ireland, Pakistan, Russian Federation, South Africa, Sweden,
    Trans-European Research and Education Network, United Kingdom, United
   Nations Environment Program, UN Framework Convention on Climate Change,
   UN Convention on Biological Diversity, UN Program on Human Sustainable
                                 Development

                               U.S. Federal -
    Advanced Search Facility, Center for Integration of Natural Disaster
    Information, DefenseLink, Federal Depository Library Program, Global
      Change Data and Information System, Master Environmental Library,
    National Biological Information Infrastructure, National Spatial Data
    Infrastructure, National Environmental Data Index, U.S. Federal GILS

                                U.S. States -
     Alabama, Alaska, California, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois,
       Kansas, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska,
   New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North
      Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Utah,
      Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming

                                Communities -
            Baltimore MD, CommunityPlanet (U.S.), Dane County WI,
           Fort Lauderdale FL, Gallatin County MT, Greensboro NC,
        Madison GA, Philadelphia PA, Seamless (U.K.), Tallahassee FL,
               Tillamook County OR, Tennessee Valley Authority

                         Table 1 Related Initiatives

  What does a Clearinghouse Partner agree to?

   A Partnership Agreement describes procedures, roles and
   responsibilities of Partners and the Partnership Organization. Those
   who have signed the Partnership Agreement may participate in the
   Partnership Organization.

    Terms

   Collections Policy - The Collections Policy documents the standards and
   policies adopted among Partners in Clearinghouse. The Collections
   Policy therefore describes how Partners provide Government information
   and comply with various intellectual property, privacy, security, and
   other constraints in law and policy concerning public access to
   Government information.

   Partner - A Partner agrees to support Clearinghouse standards and
   policies adopted in common as documented in the Collections Policy. Any
   organization working on the standards and policies may declare as a
   Clearinghouse Partner. Partners may also agree annually to participate
   in the Partnership Organization. Examples of interest areas among
   Partners include technology, content, and services.

   Partnership Organization - The Partnership Organization decides on
   adoption of standards and policies for Clearinghouse and publishes a
   description of these in the Collections Policy. Its works are
   in the public domain, except that the Partnership Organization may
   exert copyright over its identity (e.g., "logo") for the sake of
   clarity. The Partnership Organization is composed of Clearinghouse
   Partners who have signed this Partnership Agreement and agree annually
   to participate. The Partnership Organization may include, among others:
   various U.S. Federal government agencies, private sector corporations
   and consortia, non-government organizations and representatives of the
   public interest, voluntary standards organizations, and academic and
   research organizations or individuals representing those areas. Other
   organizations may also coordinate with the Partnership Organization.

    Procedures

   Composition - The Partnership Organization has a designated Executive
   Secretary. The Partnership Organization may organize various Teams
   for distinct purposes, including a Core Team that helps to formulate
   proposals and decision statements. The Partnership Organization
   otherwise organizes itself.

   Participation - Partners that have signed the Partnership Agreement
   will be asked annually by the Executive Secretary to participate in the
   Partnership Organization.

   Discussions and Decisions - The Partnership Organization conducts most
   of its deliberations and formalizes all of its decisions through online
   discussions. Major decisions of the Partnership Organization are
   reached in online discussion by majority vote of participants who vote
   on the specific proposal.

   Publishing - A central responsibility of the Partnership Organization
   is to publish the Collections Policy document and the current version
   of the Partnership Agreement. Any Partner may propose revisions to
   either document through the online discussion. Where substantial
   interest is evident, the Core Team will prepare a proposal and the
   Partnership Organization will act on that proposal.

   Meetings - The Partnership Organization holds semi-annual face-to-face
   meetings, at a time and place decided by the Executive Secretary after
   discussion with Partners participating in the Partnership Organization.

    Roles and Responsibilities

   Status - The Partnership Organization is an interest group, neither
   solely a government or private sector entity. Adoption of a standard
   for the purposes of Clearinghouse does not constitute endorsement by
   the U.S. Federal Government, nor does it imply that Clearinghouse has
   validated the standard.

   Policy and Standards

   The Partner will participate in the process of adopting policy and
   standards pertinent to Clearinghouse.

   The Partnership Organization will make the final decisions on issues of
   policy and standards. The Partnership Organization will publish in the
   Collections Policy the current standards and policies adopted by
   Clearinghouse, as well as this Partnership Agreement and the current
   list of Partners participating in the Partnership Organization.

   Cooperative Cataloging

   The Partner will continuously update locator records if offered as a
   shared Clearinghouse resource. The Partner will help make editorial
   choices on the contents of shared Clearinghouse resources.

   The Partnership Organization collaborates with Partners to assure that
   locator records the Partner maintains are always accessible in any
   shared Clearinghouse resource. The Partnership Organization also
   collaborates with Partners to assure that the records are current
   within a specified number of days. The Partnership Organization makes
   final editorial decisions and will define the precise format, naming,
   and maintenance choices for contents of shared Clearinghouse resources.

   Automated Gathering

   The Partnership Organization may provide guidelines about automated
   gathering processes (i.e., "crawlers", "spiders", "robots", etc.).
   These processes are often used to gather and characterize information
   on the Internet. The Partner will tell the Partnership Organization
   about any metadata kept about the resources, whether embedded or
   separate.

   The Partnership Organization makes final decisions on the use of
   Partner-provided metadata in shared Clearinghouse resources. The
   Partnership Organization collaborates with Partners to assure that
   automated gathering processes effectively identify Partner resources
   and have minimal impact on Partner operations.

   Other Information Resources

   The Partner may maintain information continuously accessible for search
   access using standards endorsed by Clearinghouse.

   The Partnership Organization collaborates with Partners to assure that
   any shared Clearinghouse distributed search mechanism operates
   effectively with Partner resources. The Partnership Organization
   collaborates with Partners on how searches rank and present results.

   Partner Promotion of Clearinghouse

   The Partner includes hyperlinks to other Clearinghouse systems from an
   appropriate high-level Web page and may link to a distributed search of
   Clearinghouse servers. The Partner may also commit to mention
   Clearinghouse in promotional materials.

   Partners within the Partnership Organization collaborate to assure
   appropriate citation and source of Partner information in shared
   Clearinghouse resources.

   Relationships with Other Organizations

   The Partner will act as liaison between the Partnership Organization
   and other public or private organizations with which the Partner has
   relationships. These may include international, foreign national,
   state, tribal, and local government as well as commercial and
   non-government organizations.

   The Partnership Organization will involve the Partner liaison in
   Clearinghouse activities that overlap with these relationships.

   Technology Collaboration

   The Partner may collaborate with other Partners on new technologies
   that advance the goals of Clearinghouse. These may include thesauri and
   gazetteers, cooperative cataloging, distributed search, machine-aided
   cataloging, indexing and abstracting, metadata techniques, networking
   infrastructure, privacy and security, among others.

   The Partnership Organization will operate an electronic mail discussion
   list and take other actions to help catalyze collaboration among
   Partners.
     __________________________________________________________________

                          Appendix A: What is GILS?

  Facing the Challenge; Seizing the Opportunity

   Every day, government, industry, and other institutions create
   mountains of data, research, and analysis. And, every day - driven by
   warp-speed advances in computer and communications technology - the
   information creation rate accelerates.

   [Image8.jpg] How can we make information accessible and usable -
   information already in cultural treasure houses, on the Internet today,
   and blasting at us in the 21^st Century?

   How can we ensure that people can deal effectively with the mountains
   of information they will be facing - and not be buried beneath them?

   The Global Information Locator Service (GILS) is a revolutionary new
   approach designed to address one of the most crucial challenges we will
   face in the 21^st Century: enabling people to find and retrieve
   information easily even as information sources expand and diversify.

  How Does GILS Work this Magic?

   Fundamentally, GILS is about managing information content, not just
   picking new information technologies. GILS defines an open, low-cost,
   and scalable standard so that governments, companies, or other
   organizations can help searchers find collections of information, as
   well as specific information in the collections. GILS works for
   organizations large or small, technically advanced or just starting
   out. Anything you can regard as information, you can describe using
   GILS, from printed documents, to lists of experts, to complex data. For
   example, a Clearinghouse for Geospatial Data extends GILS to help
   searchers find map products and answer questions using the vast range
   of data referenced to places on the Earth.

   [Image9.jpg]

  What Does GILS Mean to Content Providers?

   GILS is an open standard for searching basic information descriptions.
   As part of how an organization manages information content, these
   "locator records" give users inside and outside the organization a
   simple way to find information. Authors or catalogers may insert the
   descriptive metadata into Web pages with tools like TagGen, organize it
   into databases with tools like MetaStar and Microsoft Access; or simply
   store it as documents.

   Content providers offer locator records over the Internet through
   GILS-compliant software, including Internet search engines like
   Alta Vista, DOCS-Fulcrum, and Ultraseek; database systems like Oracle;
   or traditional library catalog systems like SIRSI. Content providers
   can also choose free GILS-compliant software from sources around the
   world.

  What Does GILS Mean to Searchers?

   For information users, GILS offers a standard way to find information
   by its description-whether a specific document, an information service,
   a collection of information, or an entire organization. Having a common
   standard allows searchers to find information across institutions that
   may be separated by geography, charter, focus, or government.

   When used to describe broad information collections, GILS locators
   communicate the basic essentials of the content of an information
   collection. Searchers use GILS records to navigate quickly and easily
   to the collection of interest. Within a collection, searchers may find
   an individual item, or may chose to find referrals to other
   collections.

  What is the GILS Standard?

   [Image10.jpg]
   Anyone who has used a library can use GILS. Based on the ISO 23950
   search standard, GILS includes the commonly understood concepts by
   which people worldwide find information sources in libraries - concepts
   like Title, Author, Publisher, Date, and Place. A GILS locator record
   is a kind of souped-up version of your trusty library catalog record.
   The GILS approach allows us to leverage our treasure houses of
   accumulated knowledge, exploit the full breadth of the Internet today,
   and position us for the Information Age as we enter the 21st Century.

                     Appendix B: Locator Record Elements

   Clearinghouse will incorporate a catalog of locator records. Each
   locator record will characterize a government information resource,
   typically at the level of a Web server or a higher aggregate of
   resources.

   A locator record is a form of "metadata" and may include elements from
   among the following set selected to support reasonably precise search
   without incurring high cataloging costs. The definitions of these
   record elements are consistent with bibliographic cataloging and the
   "Specification and Standardization of Data Elements" (ISO 11179).
   Title: The name given as the distinctive designation of the information
       resource.
       Originator: The name of the originator of the information resource.
       Language-of-Resource: The code identifying the language of the
       information resource. (This value is defaulted to "en" for English
       in most locator records maintained by U.S. Federal Government
       partners in Clearinghouse.)
       Abstract: The text describing the information resource.
       Controlled-Subject-Index: The controlled vocabulary associated with
       the subject of the information resource.
       Spatial-Domain: The set of geographic designations of the coverage
       of the information resource. (This value is defaulted to "Place =
       United States" in most locator records maintained by U.S. Federal
       Government partners in Clearinghouse.)
       Linkage: The identifier of the address of the cross-referenced
       information resource. (By convention on the Internet, the
       identifier is a URL or URN.)
       Access-Constraints: The constraints on access to the information
       resource. (This value is defaulted to "none" in most locator
       records maintained by U.S. Federal Government partners in
       Clearinghouse.)
       Use-Constraints: The text describing the constraints on use of the
       information resource. (This value is defaulted to "none" in most
       locator records maintained by U.S. Federal Government partners in
       Clearinghouse.)
       Point-of-Contact: The party acting as contact for the information
       resource. (The party may be a person, an organization, or both.)
       Control-Identifier: The identifier of the locator record of the
       information resource. (The organization maintaining the catalog in
       Clearinghouse generates this value.)
       Record-Source: The identifier of the source of the locator record
       of the information resource. (This value is the name of the
       organization maintaining the catalog in Clearinghouse.)
       Language-of-Record: The code of the language of the locator record
       of the information resource. (This value is defaulted to "en" for
       English in most locator records maintained by U.S. Federal
       Government partners in Clearinghouse.)
       Date-of-Last-Modification: The date of last modification of the
       locator record of the information resource. (The organization
       maintaining the catalog in Clearinghouse generates this value.)

                Appendix C: Clearinghouse Collections Policy

   Clearinghouse provides an international standards-based approach for
   deploying an "information locator service" to identify and describe
   information resources and to assist searchers in obtaining the
   information. It is therefore a critical part of the overall information
   infrastructure, i.e., the underlying framework of facilities,
   institutions, and policies supporting information throughout a
   community.

   [Image11.gif]
   A Clearinghouse information locator service can be viewed as one aspect
   of content management, a term that encompasses data management,
   information management and knowledge management. In the simplified
   "information life cycle" diagram below, information is regarded as
   progressing through six stages. The information locator service focuses
   on the "discover" stage. Here, information already exists in an
   accessible form but the searcher has not yet discovered it.

   In addition to online information delivery, a system for locating
   information can include other media and various value-added features
   and dissemination services provided by intermediaries in all sectors of
   society. With network technologies such as the Internet, a
   Clearinghouse implementation can be focused or comprehensive,
   interoperable without being restrictive, and coherent without being
   centralized.

   Because of the special nature of government information, all
   Clearinghouse Partners should be aware of the applicable laws and
   policies in regard to public access of Government information at the
   U.S. Federal level. In part, this means that U.S. Federal agencies can
   contract support for public access to Government information but they
   cannot delegate statutory responsibilities. Agencies must provide open
   and equal access, and cannot grant "copyright-like" or exclusive
   privileges to their public material.

   A public document called the "Clearinghouse Collections Policy" will
   express specific policies guiding Clearinghouse content.  Clearinghouse
   includes publicly accessible data and information held by agencies of
   the U.S. Federal Government. An extensive breadth of resources is
   referenced, although detailed information is often aggregated. Among
   the shared Clearinghouse resources are locator records composed of
   catalog information about Government information resources.  Such
   records can be useful for text search, structured metadata search, and
   various browse modes. The locator record information may be derived
   through machine-aided cataloging and classification techniques together
   with expertise provided by trained catalogers. Cataloging may be
   performed cooperatively between a maintainer of the locator records and
   an information holding agency.

   Clearinghouse services acknowledge Government sources of  information
   and services delivered and clearly communicate what Government
   information is in the public domain. Unless specifically constrained
   under law, Clearinghouse information maintained by U.S. Federal agency
   Clearinghouse Partners is offered free of charge on the Internet and
   without intellectual property restrictions on access or use worldwide.
   Cataloging terminology systems used in shared Clearinghouse resources
   are in the public domain. Formats of Clearinghouse locator records are
   in the public domain.

   Clearinghouse Partners make no assertion as to the quality of content
   provided other than any assertions of the holding agency. Content
   developed by a Clearinghouse Partner is reviewed as to its
   authenticity.

            Appendix D: U.S. Law and Policy for Federal Agencies

   The Clearinghouse Collections Policy must be consistent with: Paperwork
   Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35), Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C.
   Chapters 29, 31, 33, and 35), Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), Freedom of
   Information Act as amended in 1996 (5 U.S.C. 552), Information
   Technology Management Reform Act (40 U.S.C. Chapter 25), Computer
   Security Act of 1987 (40 U.S.C. 759 note), OMB Circular A-130,
   "Management of Federal Information Resources" (61 F.R. 6428, February
   20, 1996), OMB Memorandum 98-5, "Guidance on the Government Information
   Locator Service", and National Archives and Records Administration
   regulations (36 CFR Chapter 12, Subchapter B, "Records Management").

   Federal Government partners will include in Clearinghouse information
   required of agencies under U.S. laws and policy. This will typically
   represent an aggregate of information separately accessible through
   agency Websites and with existing systems for public access. U.S.
   Federal Government partners in Clearinghouse will develop and maintain
   this information in cooperation with agencies.

   The Paperwork Reduction Act and OMB Circular A-130 require agencies to
   maintain a diversity of sources of public information to provide timely
   and equitable access to the information as well as to the underlying
   data. U.S. Federal Government partners in Clearinghouse have specific
   requirements under law and OMB guidance on implementing the Government
   Information Locator Service. Agencies should identify on their Websites
   where they maintain agency GILS records and identify locating aids to
   any other electronic dissemination and access programs. U.S. Federal
   Government partners in Clearinghouse should also identify on their
   Websites an alternate, non-electronic access method, including an
   agency point of contact handling non-electronic requests. U.S. Federal
   Government partners should arrange for permanent public access to the
   locator records, through GPO or otherwise.

   Clearinghouse will include publicly accessible U.S. Federal Government
   information resources as defined in OMB Circular A-130 or the Federal
   Depository Library Program. Coverage of resources in the Legislative
   and Judicial Branches will be achieved primarily through incorporation
   of the many resources of GPO. (GPO maintains over 1300 databases of
   government information, including extensive coverage of the Executive
   Branch.) Clearinghouse does require skilled reviewers to ascertain what
   are official and authentic Federal information resources. Clearinghouse
   will benefit greatly in this respect from its partnerships with GPO and
   other Partners.

   Government information resources within the scope of Clearinghouse are
   either directly accessible on the Internet and/or are accessible
   through other means as described in a locator record. Locator records
   maintained by U.S. Federal agencies are accessible on the Internet,
   including via a GILS-compliant server. In some instances, the
   information resource referenced by a locator record is itself a
   GILS-compliant server, e.g., the Geospatial Data Clearinghouse. Locator
   records accessible from U.S. Federal agencies in shared Clearinghouse
   resources are digitally signed. Locator records maintained by a U.S.
   Federal agency Clearinghouse Partner are reviewed for accuracy at least
   annually.

   Log records of access maintained by U.S. Federal Government partners in
   Clearinghouse will be for operations and maintenance purposes only.
   Clearinghouse will not track usage by individual persons, nor will logs
   be made available for any other purpose.

   Web pages maintained by U.S. Federal Government partners in
   Clearinghouse will be compliant with the Americans with Disabilities
   Act.

   U.S. Federal agency Clearinghouse Partners maintaining Clearinghouse
   information resources and services solicit feedback on the system
   effectiveness, performance, results, and plans from significant public
   stakeholders and user communities.

                                  Glossary

   client - Client software handles interaction with network servers,
   using a specific protocol.

   Clearinghouse - The U.S. Federal Government Information Clearinghouse
   helps the public to locate and use government information and
   electronic services.

   Clearinghouse Partnership - The Clearinghouse Partnership refers to the
   partnership that delineates Clearinghouse standards and technology
   infrastructure.

   Classification Scheme - A Classification Scheme clusters objects by
   similar characteristics.

   Collections Policy - The Clearinghouse Collections Policy documents
   content and policy agreements among Partners.

   eXtensible Markup Language (XML) - XML is more powerful than HyperText
   Markup Language (HTML), and provides a common way to integrate
   documents with database services on the Web.

   File Transfer Protocol (FTP) - FTP is an Internet protocol used for
   bulk transfer of files between clients and servers

   Global Information Locator Service (GILS) - GILS is an international
   standard for information search and retrieval based on ISO 23950.

   HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) - HTTP is one of the Internet
   client-server protocols to select, retrieve, and interact with
   information and services. Web browsers use HTTP extensively, especially
   in combination with documents prepared in HTML.

   Internet - The Internet is a global, public electronic network of
   networks, which allows millions of computers to exchange information
   over telecommunications facilities.

   Internet content providers - Internet content providers are individuals
   and organizations that publish content on the Internet.

   ISO - International Organization for Standardization

   ISO 23950 - The international standard for information search and
   retrieval (also known as ANSI/NISO Z39.50).

   locator record - A locator record supports information resource
   discovery by conveying descriptive metadata (e.g., the elements listed
   in Appendix B).

   protocol - A protocol specifies the exchange of information between
   computer systems (e.g., HTTP, FTP, and Z39.50).

   server - A server computer system provides services to multiple users
   on a digital network, typically through a network services protocol.

   Web - World Wide Web

   Web browser - A Web browser is software for access to services provided
   by Web servers.

   Web pages - Web pages are accessible through Web browsers and may
   include hypertext links to other Web pages and services.

   Web publishing - Users of computers on the Internet typically publish
   content through a Web server.

   Web server - A Web server supports access by Web browsers using
   Internet protocols.

   World Wide Web - The Web is a set of services by Internet servers that
   are accessible through widely available Web browsers.

   Z39.50 - The international standard for information search and
   retrieval (also known as ISO 23950).
