http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/archive/2000-Spring/sched.html


                        Goddard Engineering Colloquia

                            Spring 2000 Schedule

   All colloquia are held at 3:30 p. m. on Mondays in the Building 3
   Auditorium, unless otherwise indicated below. Any changes in the
   schedule will be indicated on this page with the minimum possible
   delay.

   NOTE: Readers are encouraged to print and post the announcements
   pointed to under "Topic" in the table below. For best printing results
   using Netscape Navigator, the suggested browser font size setting is
   12. For other browsers, it may be necessary to experiment. Feedback
   concerning printing problems would be welcomed by the author of these
   web pages.

   NOTE: Information to update the vacant slots in the table below will be
   provided as soon as it becomes available.

   Date Topic Speaker
   February 14 Future Telescopes on the Ground and in Space Roger Angel
   University of Arizona
   February 21
   (No colloquium -- Holiday)
   February 28 RoboCup: The Robot World Cup Soccer Games Peter Stone
   AT&T Research Labs
   March 6 Musical Chairs & Magic Carpets: Things That Think at the MIT
   Media Lab Joe Paradiso
   MIT Media Laboratory
   March 13 Cosmic Journeys: To the Edge of Gravity, Space, and Time Nick
   White
   GSFC/Code 662
   March 20 Gemini North Telescope:  Ground-Based Astronomy at the
   Diffraction Limit Wayne Van Citters
   March 27
       **** NOTE ---
         Location changed to
         Building 8 Auditorium Eyewitness to the First Space Age: Some
   Lessons to Be Drawn W. Burrows
   Author
   April 3 Visions of (20th Century) Technology Richard Rhodes
   Author
   April 10
   (No colloquium due to
   Hubble Space Telescope
   Celebration activities)
   April 17 Impacts of Solar Storms on the North American Power Grid John
   Kappenman
   MetaTech Corp.
   April 24 Teaching an Old Dog New Tricks: The Ultra-Long Duration
   Balloon I. Steve Smith
   GSFC/Code 820 (Wallops)
   May 1 Low Energy Routes Using Chaos in Space Travel and Astronomy
   Edward Belbruno
   Princeton University
   May 8 The C&O Canal: Marvelous Engineering Failure Arthur D. Delagrange
   Author
   May 15 Mars Exploration and the New Millennium Benton Clark
   Lockheed Martin Astronautics
   May 22 Using the Internet Protocols in Space (And Other Unusual
   Locations!) Ron Parise
   Computer Sciences Corp.
   May 29
   (No colloquium -- Holiday)
   June 5 NASAs North Pole Expedition, 1999 Michael Comberiate
   GSFC

   Return to Engineering Colloquium home page at
   http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/

   Notice: Nothing appearing in these pages is to be construed as an
   endorsement by NASA.
