http://www.eric.ed.gov/oldnews/index.html

   Skip Navigation
   ERIC Search ERIC Database Ask ERIC ERIC Digests
        Publications Resources About ERIC
   Educational Resources Information Center
   Department of Education
   Skip Navigation
   Search Site
   Feedback Form
   Site Map
   FAQ
   Support Components
   EDRS
   Facility
   Adjuncts/Affiliates
   ERIC System Directory

                                 ACCESS ERIC
                             2277 Research Blvd.
                                    MS 4M
                             Rockville, MD 20850
                                800 LET-ERIC
                                800 538-3742
                                 accesseric@
                               accesseric.org

   Skip Navigation
   Adult, Career, and Vocational Education
   Assessment and Evaluation
   Community Colleges
   Counseling and Student Services
   Disabilities and Gifted Education
   Educational Management
   Elementary and Early Childhood Education
   Higher Education
   Information & Technology
   Languages and Linguistics
   Reading, English, and Communication
   Rural Education and Small Schools
   Science, Mathematics, and Environmental Education
   Social Studies/Social Science Education
   Teaching and Teacher Education
   Urban Education

   Start of Main Content

   Disabilities and Gifted Education
   Two new Digests are available from the ERIC Clearinghouse on
   Disabilities and Gifted Education: Adults with Attention Deficit
   Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), and Selecting a College for Students
   with Learning Disabilities or Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder
   (ADHD).

   ERIC/IT Web Links
   Web Links is a new annual publication from the ERIC Clearinghouse on
   Information & Technology that provides links to some of the best
   educational resources available online. Web Links 2001/2002: Internet
   Resources for Children (PDF Version) describes over 50 high quality
   internet resources for children in grades K-8.

   Full Text Resources
   The ERIC Clearinghouse on Adult, Career, and Vocational Education has
   added three new links to offsite, full text resources. These include
   America's Literacy Directory, Canadian Association for the Study of
   Adult Education, and the Directory of CPAE (Commission of Professors of
   Adult Education) Colleagues.

   Item Response Theory
   The ERIC Clearinghouse on Assessment and Evaluation has created a
   resource page to help explain the basic concepts of Item Response
   Theory. The site features an online, no-cost version of Frank Baker's
   book, The Basics of Item Response Theory, as well as other useful links
   and resources related to this class of measurement models.

   Japan in World History
   Now available from the Adjunct ERIC Clearinghouse for U.S.-Japan
   Studies, this internet guide provides an annotated list of online
   resources for history educators and others interested in the role Japan
   has played in world history.

   National Clearinghouse for Educational Facilities
   Three new publications are available from NCEF, an affiliate ERIC
   Clearinghouse. The new publications are titled The Garrett Case and
   Public School Accessibility, Lighting for Schools, and Wireless Wide
   Area Networks for School Districts, and are available in HTML and PDF
   formats.

   NCLEnotes
   The National Center for ESL Literacy Education, an adjunct ERIC
   Clearinghouse, has released the Winter 2001/2002 issue of its
   newsletter, NCLEnotes. The featured article in this issue is titled "10
   Strategies for Teaching Adult English Language Learners."

   Trends and Issues
   The ERIC Clearinghouse on Educational Management has updated and
   expanded two topics within its Trends and Issues feature. New
   information and resources can now be found relating to School Law and
   Social and Economic Context.

   Tribal Colleges: An Overview
   This new Digest from the ERIC Clearinghouse for Community Colleges
   gives an overview of tribal community colleges and universities in the
   United States and provides a list of resources related to the topic.

   Using Online Occupational Information for Career Development
   New from the ERIC Clearinghouse on Adult, Career, and Vocational
   Education, this 12-page Practitioner File discusses the role of
   occupational information in career decision making, addresses some
   concerns about online information, and takes an in-depth look at some
   national online information tools provided by Americas Workforce
   Network. Additional website resources for occupational/career
   information are described.

   Adult, Career, and Vocational Education
   The ERIC Clearinghouse on Adult, Career, and Vocational Education has
   published three new additions to its Myths and Realities series:
   Learning Technologies in Adult Education, The Older Worker, and Return
   on Investment in Training.

   AskERIC Hot Topics
   The AskERIC Question Archive has provided responses to three new
   questions concerning ways to increase student motivation, the effects
   of background music on students, and curriculum mapping.

   Disabilities and Gifted Education
   Several new Digests are available online from the ERIC Clearinghouse on
   Disabilities and Gifted Education. These include: Access to the General
   Education Curriculum for Students with Disabilities, Nonverbal Learning
   Disability: How to Recognize It and Minimize Its Effects, Research on
   Full-Service Schools and Students with Disabilities, and Students with
   Disabilities in Correctional Facilities.

   ERIC/CLL Language Link
   The ERIC Clearinghouse on Languages and Linguistics has posted the
   latest issue of its online newsletter, ERIC/CLL Language Link. The
   feature article this month examines how the September 11 terrorist
   attacks have drawn attention to important language needs in U.S.
   defense and intelligence. This issue of ERIC/CLL Language Link also
   profiles the journal Language, Culture and Curriculum.

   Practical Assessment, Research & Evaluation
   A new article titled "Four Assumptions of Multiple Regression that
   Researchers Should Always Test" has been added to Volume 8 of PARE, the
   online journal produced by the ERIC Clearinghouse on Assessment and
   Evaluation.

   Spanish for Spanish Speakers: Developing Dual Language Proficiency
   This latest Digest from the ERIC Clearinghouse on Languages and
   Linguistics defines and examines the goals of Spanish instruction for
   native speakers and makes suggestions for program design, instructional
   strategies, and materials.

   Spirituality in Adult and Higher Education
   A new Digest has been produced by the ERIC Clearinghouse on Adult,
   Career, and Vocational Education that provides a summary of the recent
   literature related to spirituality as it relates to adult learning.

   Strategies for Improving the Educational Outcomes of Latinas
   Newly available online from the ERIC Clearinghouse on Urban Education,
   this Digest presents a range of strategies that schools serving Latinas
   can employ to promote academic achievement.

   AskERIC Update
   The January issue of AskERIC Update features tips on how to use ERIC
   Identifiers to perform more effective searches in the ERIC database and
   identifies resources and teaching activities pertaining to the
   celebration of Martin Luther King Day.

   Civics Education for Adult ESL Learners
   An annotated collection of civics resources is newly available from the
   National Center for ESL Literacy Education, an adjunct ERIC
   Clearinghouse. This site lists publications, Web sites, organizations,
   and other resources that teachers can use as they plan for integrating
   civics into instruction for adult English language learners.

   Creating Web-Based Language Learning Activities
   New from the ERIC Clearinghouse on Language and Linguistics, this
   Online Resource Guide provides links to publications, Web sites, and
   listservs that language teachers can use to create their own Web-based
   activities. The Guide includes an annotated bibliography of ERIC
   documents on this topic.

   Data Inquiry and Analysis for Educational Reform
   This new Digest from the ERIC Clearinghouse on Educational Management
   outlines the most useful types of data to drive the process of school
   improvement, the steps that must be taken to collect and analyze the
   data, the role of administrators in guiding the data-driven reform
   process, and the results that can be expected.

   Educational Facilities Resource Lists
   Several new resource lists have been added to the Web site of the
   National Clearinghouse for Educational Facilities, an affiliate ERIC
   clearinghouse. The lists include links to full-text publications and
   related Web sites, descriptions of books, studies, reports and journal
   articles. Recent topics address: capacity, grade configuration, wired
   and wireless networks, and student housing.

   ERIC/IT Update
   The ERIC Clearinghouse on Information and Technology has released the
   Winter 2001 issue of its online newsletter, Update. For this issue,
   articles were written by the project directors of all seven of the
   educational technology programs that were designated as exemplary or
   promising by the U.S. Department of Educations Educational Technology
   Expert Panel. The authors share experiences and insights involved in
   the development of some of the most innovative, successful, and
   widespread educational technology programs in the country.

   Noteworthy Books and Resources
   A Winter 2002 update of Noteworthy Books and Resources has been posted
   to the Web site of the ERIC Clearinghouse on Rural Education and Small
   Schools. This update contains abstracts of some of the best books and
   resources recently added to the ERIC database on the topics of American
   Indian and Alaska Native education, Mexican American education, rural
   education, and small schools.

   Practical Assessment, Research & Evaluation
   The ERIC Clearinghouse on Assessment and Evaluation has posted the
   first of several articles for Volume 8 of its online journal, PARE. The
   article, "Using electronic surveys: Advice from survey professionals,"
   reports the perceptions and recommendations of sixty-two experienced
   survey researchers from the American Educational Research Association
   regarding the use of electronic surveys.

   Using Music in the Adult ESL Classroom
   This latest Digest from the adjunct ERIC Clearinghouse for ESL Literacy
   Education offers suggestions for using music and music-based activities
   to develop and practice reading and writing, listening comprehension,
   vocabulary, and speaking, and to expand cultural knowledge.

            This page was updated on Mon Jan 28 17:05:55 GMT 2002

   Clear

       Skip Navigation Search ERIC Database | AskERIC | ERIC Digests |
                    Publications | Resources | About ERIC

                Search Site | Feedback Form | Site Map | FAQ
        EDRS | Facility | Adjuncts/Affiliates | ERIC System Directory
