http://ffas.usda.gov/excredits/pl480/Aghanistan/backgrounder01292002.html

   FAS Online Logo Return to the FAS Home Page
   [spacer.gif]
   FAS Logo II

   January 29, 2002

   BACKGROUNDER:

        USDA Contributes to Relief and Reconstruction in Afghanistan

   The U.S. Department of Agriculture will donate $45 million in food and
   funding to support relief and recovery efforts in Afghanistan in fiscal
   2002. This donation is part of the recently announced first-year U.S.
   commitment to assist in rebuilding Afghanistan.

   The USDA donation will support a variety of projects, including food
   for education, road and bridge building, agricultural recovery, health
   and nutrition programs, construction of schools and hospitals, wheat
   milling and bread baking. Many of the projects will focus on expanding
   employment opportunities, especially for women, and increasing access
   to basic education.

   As schools reopen, women will be reemployed as teachers, and meals will
   be provided to both students and teachers. Agricultural projects
   include the repair of irrigation systems, reforestation and
   anti-erosion works, and alternatives for poppy growers.

   The food commodities will be provided under USDA’s Section 416(b)
   donation program. The projects will be conducted by the UN World Food
   Program and private voluntary organizations that understand the
   situation in Afghanistan.

   The relief and recovery effort is part of the continuing U.S.
   commitment to the Afghan people. On Jan. 21, 2002, at the International
   Conference for Reconstruction Assistance to Afghanistan, the United
   States pledged $297 million as the initial U.S. contribution in an
   international, multi-year, multi-billion-dollar effort to assist in
   rebuilding Afghanistan.

   This pledge, which includes the USDA donation, is in addition to
   previously announced U.S. humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. The
   United States is the largest donor of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan:
     * Between FY 1999 and 2001, the United States provided more than
       570,000 metric tons of food assistance to the Afghan people, most
       of it wheat, in addition to other humanitarian assistance.
     * Over 80 percent of the total commodity tonnage was provided under
       USDA donation programs.
     * The new donation will bring the total value of USDA donations to
       Afghanistan since FY 1999 to nearly $220 million.
     * U.S. food aid has helped avert widespread famine in a country where
       millions of people suffer from three years of severe drought and
       large-scale dislocations.

   In assisting Afghanistan, USDA works closely with the U.S. Agency for
   International Development, the Department of State and other agencies.

   More info about U.S. Assistance for Afghanistan


   [spacer.gif]

   [spacer.gif]
   Last modified: Tuesday, January 29, 2002
