http://encke.jpl.nasa.gov/request.html

                              JPL Black Nav Bar

            OBSERVATIONS REQUESTED FOR COMET LINEAR (C/2000 WM1)

   Observations of comet LINEAR in December 2001 and January 2002 could be
   valuable in understanding the solar-wind/comet interaction at high
   solar latitudes near solar maximum. The ULYSSES spacecraft has
   established that the solar wind consists of distinct equatorial and
   polar regions. The equatorial solar wind has an average speed of 450
   km/sec and a proton=electron density of 9/cc. Variations in these
   quantities can be large. This region also contains the heliospheric
   current sheet (HCS). The polar solar wind has an average speed of 750
   km/sec and a proton=electron density of 3/cc. Variations in these
   quantities are small. Specifically, the HCS does not extend into the
   polar region. The boundary is determined by the maximum extent of the
   HCS in latitude. The HCS is expected to have a small latitude extent
   near solar minimum and a large latitude extent near solar maximum. This
   picture is expected to hold for most of the solar cy cle. But, its
   applicability at the time of solar maximum, when the solar magnetic
   field reverses, is open to question.

   These solar-wind properties are reflected in the plasma tails of
   comets. In the equatorial region, the plasma tails appear relatively
   disturbed, the orientation of the plasma tail is consistent with the
   average solar-wind speed of 450 km/sec, and disconnection events (DEs)
   occur when a comet pierces the HCS. In the polar region, the plasma
   tails appear relatively undisturbed, the orientation of the plasma tail
   is consistent with the solar-wind speed of 750 km/sec, and DEs do not
   occur. These properties are described in ICARUS, Vol. 148, pp. 52-64,
   November 2000. The ULYSSES spacecraft made a South Polar Pass from
   September 2000 to January 2001 and will make a North Polar Pass from
   September to December 2001. Comet LINEAR (C/2000 WM1) can also serve as
   a probe of solar-wind conditions near solar maximum. It should be a
   good northern hemisphere object in December 2001 and a good southern
   hemisphere object in January 2002. During January 2002, the comet will
   probe high southern latitudes, reaching ecliptic latitude 72.5 degrees
   South on January 21, 2002. Thus, comet LINEAR will be a true probe of
   the solar wind with an extensive range in latitude. Properly exposed
   images of the plasma tail in December 2001 and January 2002 will
   document this comet and help determine the state of the solar-wind flow
   and the location or existence of the HCS at high latitudes near solar
   maximum.

   Specific observations that have potential scientific value are time
   sequences of plasma tail images. These could provide data on the rate
   of tail ray folding (information on the solar-wind velocity), the
   frequency of ray occurance (information on the rate at which
   discontinuities encounter the comet), and kinematic information on DEs
   (if any are seen). Images posted on the Comet Observation Home Page or
   other sites with the usual documentation and sufficient field to allow
   identification of stars for the reduction will be fine. For further
   information or to make suggestions, contact:

  Jack Brandt, jbrandt@as.unm.edu or Martin Snow, snow@lasp.colorado.edu

   All observations, of course, will be used only with the permission of
   the observer and will be fully credited to the observer.

   [halley-small.gif] Return to Comet Observation Home Page
