http://fire.pppl.gov/PCAST_1997.pdf

   REPORT TO THE PRESIDENT ON FEDERAL ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FOR
   THE CHALLENGES OF THE TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE OF
   ADVISORS ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PANEL ON ENERGY RESEARCH AND
   DEVELOPMENT NOVEMBER 1997 EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT PRESIDENT'S
   COMMITTEE OF ADVISORS ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY WASHINGTON, D.C. 20502
   November 4, 1997 President William J. Clinton The White House 1600
   Pennsylvania Avenue N.W. Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: I am
   pleased to transmit on behalf of the President's Committee of Advisors
   on Science and Technology (PCAST) the final report Federal Energy
   Research and Developmentfor the Challenges of the 21st Century. This
   report, approved by PCAST, is in response to your January 14, 1997,
   letter to John Young requesting a review of the current national energy
   R&D portfolio. The report expands on the Executive Summary which we
   delivered to you on September 30, 1997, presenting a definitive
   strategy on how to ensure that the United States has a program that
   addresses its energy and environmental needs for the next century.
   PCAST endorses the report's findings that this country's economic
   prosperity, environmental quality, national security, and world
   leadership in science and technology all require improving our energy
   technologies, and that an enhanced national R&D effort is needed to
   provide these improvements. The inadequacy of current energy R&D is
   especially acute in relation to the challenge of responding responsibly
   and cost-effectively to the risk of global climatic change from
   society's greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, carbon dioxide from
   combustion of fossil fuels. PCAST recommends focusing the government's
   energy R&D on projects where high potential payoffs for society as a
   whole justify bigger R&D investments than industry would be likely to
   make on the basis of expected private returns and where modest
   government investments can effectively complement, leverage, or
   catalyze work in the private sector. The report recommends an increase,
   over a five-year period, of $1 billion in the Department of Energy's
   annual budget for applied energy-technology R&D. The largest shares of
   such an increase would go to R&D in energy efficiency and renewable
   energy technologies, but nuclear fusion and fission would also receive
   increases. The composition of the R&D supported on advanced fossil-fuel
   technologies would change in favor of longer-term opportunities,
   including fuel cells and carbon-sequestration technologies, but the
   overall spending level for fossil-fuel technologies would stay roughly
   constant in real terms. The proposed total for FY 2003 would return the
   DOE's real level of effort in applied energy-technology R&D in that
   year to about where it was in FY 1991 and FY 1992. In constant dollars,
   the average real growth rate would be 8.3 percent per year. PCAST
   respectfully urges that you increase your efforts to communicate
   clearly to the public the importance of energy and energy R&D to the
   nation's future, and PCAST recommends that you clearly designate the
   Secretary of Energy as the national leader and coordinator for
   developing and carrying out the national energy strategy. The report
   also makes recommendations for improving the Department of Energy's
   management of its energy R&D portfolio, including the naming of a
   single individual with responsibility for the whole portfolio and
   reporting directly to the Secretary. PCAST hopes that the
   recommendations presented in the report will be helpful to you as you
   consider how the United States can best face major energy related
   challenges as it enters the 21st century. Of particular importance,
   prudence requires having in place an adequate energy R&D effort
   designed to expand the array of technological options to enable
   significant reductions in greenhouse gases at the lowest possible
   economic, environmental, and social cost. The energy R&D portfolio
   PCAST proposes will be of crucial importance in meeting that challenge.
   Many of the energy-technologies that will help with the problem of
   climate change, moreover, will also help address other energy-related
   challenges, including reducing dependence on imported oil, diversifying
   the U.S. domestic fuel- and electricity-supply systems, expanding U.S.
   exports of energy technologies, reducing air and water pollution, and
   reducing the cost, safety and security risks of nuclear energy systems
   around the world. Sincerely, John H. Gibbons Co-Chairman President's
   Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology cc: Vice President Al
   Gore send feedback to Information@ostp.eop.gov . EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The
   United States faces major energy-related challenges as it enters the
   twenty-first century. Our economic well-being depends on reliable,
   affordable supplies of energy. Our environmental well-being-from
   improving urban air quality to abating the risk of global
   warming-requires a mix of energy sources that emits less carbon dioxide
   and other pollutants than today's mix does. Our national security
   requires secure supplies of oil or alternatives to it, as well as
   prevention of nuclear proliferation. And for reasons of economy,
   environment, security, and stature as a world power alike, the United
   States must maintain its leadership in the science and technology of
   energy supply and use. All of these energy-related challenges to the
   well-being of this country are made more acute by what is happening
   elsewhere in the world. The combination of population growth and
   economic development in Asia, Africa, and Latin America is driving a
   rapid expansion of world energy use, which is beginning to augment
   significantly the worldwide emissions of carbon dioxide from fossil
   fuel combustion, increasing pressures on world oil supplies, and
   exacerbating nuclear proliferation concerns. Means must be found to
   meet the economic aspirations and associated energy needs of all the
   world's people while protecting the environment and preserving peace,
   stability, and opportunity. Improvements in energy technologies,
   attainable through energy research and development, are the key to the
   capacity of the United States to address-and to help the rest of the
   world address-these challenges. Many of the energy R&D programs of the
   Federal government, which are primarily conducted by the Department of
   Energy (DOE), have been well focused and effective within the limits of
   available funding. But these programs, taken as a whole, are not
   commensurate in scope and scale with the energy challenges and
   opportunities the twenty-first century will present. (This judgment
   takes into account the contributions to energy R&D that can reasonably
   be expected to be made by the private sector under market conditions
   similar to today's.) The inadequacy of current energy R&D is especially
   acute in relation to the challenge of responding prudently and
   cost-effectively to the risk of global climatic change from society's
   greenhouse-gas emissions, of which the most important is carbon dioxide
   from combustion of fossil fuels. Much of the new R&D needed to respond
   to this challenge would also be responsive to the other challenges.
   ES-1 SYNOPSIS OF MAIN RECOMMENDATIONS To close the gap between the
   current energy R&D program and the one that the challenges require, the
   Panel recommends strengthening the DOE applied energy-technology R&D
   portfolio by increasing funding for four of its major elements (energy
   end-use efficiency, nuclear fission, nuclear fusion, and renewable
   energy technologies) and restructuring part of the fifth (fossil fuel
   technologies). We also recommend better coordination between the
   Department's applied energy-technology programs and the fundamental
   research carried out in the program on Basic Energy Sciences; increased
   Department efforts in integrated analysis of its entire energy R&D
   portfolio and the leverage the portfolio offers against the energy
   challenges of the next century; targeted efforts to improve the
   prospects of commercialization of the fruits of publicly funded energy
   R&D in specific areas; increased attention to certain international
   aspects of energy R&D; and changes in the prominence given to energy
   R&D in relation to the Department's other missions, coupled with
   changes in how this R&D is managed. Applied Energy-Technology R&D
   Recommendations The overall budgets we propose for applied
   energy-technology R&D to the year 2003, based on analyses summarized in
   our main report and set out in more detail in its appendices, are
   summarized in Table ES.1. (The table provides these figures both in
   as-spent dollars, which are the usual currency of official budget
   planning, and in constant 1997 dollars, which are more informative
   about what is really happening to the size of the effort.) The applied
   energy-technology R&D programs, which have been the main focus of the
   Panel's study and which are shown in Table ES.1, contain only part of
   the activities constituting DOE's congressional budget lines for
   "Energy R&D." Table ES.2 shows the relation, under the FY 1997
   congressional appropriation and the FY 1998 DOE request, between the
   amount budgeted for the activities included in our "applied
   energy-technology R&D" category and the amounts budgeted for the other
   activities included under "Energy R&D" in the congressional budget
   lines. (Table ES-3 at the end of the Executive Summary provides more
   detail.) The Panel was not able to review in detail the Basic Energy
   Sciences budget line (which includes research in materials science,
   chemistry, applied mathematics, biosciences, geosciences, and
   engineering that is not directed at the development of a particular
   class of energy sources), and it did not review at all the other
   "Energy R&D" budget lines shown in Table ES.2 (which contain mostly
   items that are either not very closely linked to advances in civilian
   energy technology or are not really R&D at all). Accordingly, we do not
   offer any recommendations about the future sizes of these budgets. We
   note, however, that because advances produced by research in the Basic
   Energy Sciences category provide an important part of the expanding
   knowledge base on which progress in applied energy-technology R&D in
   the public and private sectors alike depends, the Department may want
   to consider expanding its support for Basic Energy Sciences as the
   applied energy-technology R&D areas grow. As indicated in Table ES.1,
   our proposals for the applied energy-technology R&D programs would
   increase spending in that category from $1.3 billion in 1997 to $2.4
   billion in ES-2 2003, in as-spent dollars. In constant-dollar terms,
   the increase from 1997 through 2003 is 61 percent, amounting to an
   average real growth rate of 8.3 percent per year. The proposed figure
   for 2003 would return DOE's real level of effort in applied
   energy-technology R&D in that year to about where it was in FY 1991 and
   FY 1992. Table ES.1: Recommended DOE Budget Authority for Applied
   Energy-Technology R&D In millions of as-spent dollars 1997 1998 1999
   2000 2001 2002 2003 actual request Efficiency a 373 454 615 690 770 820
   880 Fission 42 46 66 86 101 116 119 Fossil 365 346 379 406 433 437 433
   Fusion 232 225 250 270 290 320 328 Renewables 270 345 475 585 620 636
   652 TOTAL 1282 1416 1785 2037 2214 2329 2412 In millions of constant
   1997 dollars 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 actual request
   Efficiency 373 442 584 638 695 721 755 Fission 42 45 63 80 91 102 102
   Fossil 365 337 360 376 391 384 371 Fusion 232 219 237 250 262 281 281
   Renewables 270 336 451 541 559 559 559 TOTAL 1282 1379 1695 1885 1998
   2047 2068 a What is called "energy end-use efficiency" in this report
   and is abbreviated as "efficiency" in these tables appears as
   "conservation" in many budget documents. Of the Panel's proposed
   increases in DOE's applied energy-technology R&D accounts, the largest
   in dollar magnitude is in the end-use-efficiency programs, in which
   annual spending in FY 2003 would reach $880 million, about $500 million
   more than in 1997 (as-spent dollars). This large increase is
   appropriate because of the high promise of advanced efficiency
   technologies for relatively quick- starting and rapidly expanding
   contributions to several important societal goals, including cost-
   effective reductions in local air pollution and carbon dioxide
   emissions, diminished dependence on imported oil, and reductions in
   energy costs to households and firms. Improvements in energy efficiency
   reduced the energy intensity of economic activity in the United States
   by nearly one-third between 1975 and 1995, an improvement that is now
   saving U.S. consumers about $170 billion per year in energy
   expenditures and is keeping U.S. emissions of air pollutants and carbon
   dioxide about one-third lower than they would otherwise be. ES-3 Table
   ES.2: Relation of Applied Energy Technology R&D to "Total Energy R&D"
   In millions of as-spent dollars. 1997 1998 actual request APPLIED
   ENERGY TECHNOLOGY R&D 1282 1416 "Energy Research": Basic Energy
   Sciences a 641 661 "Energy Research": Other Non-Fusion 539 585 "Other
   Nuclear R&D" 216 255 "Other Conservation R&D" 177 234 TOTAL "ENERGY
   R&D" BUDGET LINES 2855 3151 a DOE's Office of Energy Research includes
   the Department's R&D on fusion energy, as well as Basic Energy Sciences
   and some other science and technology programs including biomedical and
   environmental research, research in computing, and science education.
   "Other Conservation R&D" includes the State and Local Partnership
   Programs and the Federal Energy Management Program (which are not
   really R&D at all), among other items. "Other Nuclear R&D" includes
   radioisotope power sources for spacecraft and isotopes for medical
   applications, among other items. The Panel included fusion in its
   analysis of applied energy-technology R&D (although, as noted in that
   analysis, much fusion R&D is in fact basic science). Further major
   increases in efficiency can be achieved in every energy end-use sector:
   in transportation, for example, through much more fuel-efficient cars
   and trucks; in industry through improved electric motors,
   materials-processing technologies, and manufacturing processes; in
   residential and commercial buildings through high-technology windows,
   super- insulation, more efficient lighting, and advanced heating and
   cooling systems. The second largest of the Panel's proposed increases
   is for renewable energy technologies, in which annual spending in FY
   2003 would reach $650 million, nearly $400 million more than in 1997
   (as-spent dollars). This increase makes sense in light of the rapid
   rate of cost reduction achieved in recent years for a number of
   renewable energy technologies; the good prospects for further gains;
   and the substantial positive contributions these technologies could
   make to improving environmental quality, reducing the risk of climate
   change, controlling oil-import growth, and promoting sustainable
   economic development in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Opportunities
   exist for important advances in wind-electric systems, photovoltaics,
   solar- thermal energy systems, biomass energy technologies for fuel and
   electricity, geothermal energy, and a range of hydrogen-producing and
   hydrogen-using technologies, including fuel cells. As in the case of
   the proposed increases in energy-efficiency R&D, the increased support
   for these renewable energy technologies would focus on areas where the
   expected short-term returns to industry are insufficient to stimulate
   as much R&D as the public benefits warrant. Fusion R&D is proposed for
   the third largest increase; annual spending for it in FY 2003 would
   reach about $100 million more than the 1997 figure in as-spent dollars.
   In this scenario, fusion funding would reach by 2002 the $320 million
   figure recommended in the 1995 PCAST study of fusion energy R&D as a
   constant level of spending in as-spent dollars to be maintained ES-4
   from FY 1996 onward. (This earlier PCAST recommendation did not
   prevail, and fusion funding fell instead from $369 million in FY 1995
   to $232 million in FY 1997.) The Panel judges this amount warranted for
   two reasons: (1) About $200 million per year of it would continue a
   very productive element of the country's basic science portfolio
   (comparing favorably in cutting-edge contributions and valuable
   spinoffs with other fields in that category); and (2) the rest is
   easily justified as the sort of investment the government should be
   making in a high-risk but potentially very-high-yield energy option for
   society, in which the size and time horizon of the program essentially
   rule out private funding. DOE's R&D in nuclear-fission energy systems,
   which fell 12-fold in real terms between 1986 and 1997, would increase
   under our proposal from about $40 million per year in FY 1997 to about
   $120 million per year in 2003 (as-spent dollars), thereby returning in
   real level of effort to that of 1995. Nuclear fission currently
   generates about 17 percent of the world's electricity; if this
   electricity were generated instead by coal, world carbon dioxide
   emissions from fossil fuel consumption would be almost 10 percent
   larger than they currently are. Fission's future expandability is in
   doubt in the United States and many other regions of the world because
   of concerns about high costs, reactor-accident risks, radioactive-waste
   manage- ment, and potential links to the spread of nuclear weapons. We
   believe that the potential benefits of an expanded contribution from
   fission in helping address the carbon dioxide challenge warrant the
   modest research initiative proposed here, in order to find out whether
   and how improved technology could alleviate the concerns that cloud
   this energy option's future. To write off fission now as some have
   suggested, instead of trying to fix it where it is impaired, would be
   imprudent in energy terms and would risk losing much U.S. influence
   over the safety and proliferation resistance of nuclear energy
   activities in other countries. Fission belongs in the R&D portfolio.
   Energy from fossil fuels currently contributes 85 percent of U.S.
   annual energy use and 75 percent of the world's. These fuels will
   continue to provide immense amounts of energy through the middle of the
   next century and beyond, under any plausible scenario. We judge that
   DOE's current fossil-energy R&D program is about the appropriate size
   in relation to the array of relevant needs, opportunities, and likely
   continuing private sector fossil-energy R&D activities. Our proposed
   budget for DOE's fossil-energy R&D, which increases funding in as-spent
   dollars by about $70 million per year between 1997 and 2003, actually
   holds the real level of effort approximately level near its FY 1997
   value of $365 million per year. We do, however, recommend some changes
   in emphasis within this program. Specifically, we propose phasing out
   DOE's R&D on near-term coal-power technologies and promptly ending the
   funding for direct coal liquefaction, while increasing the Department's
   R&D on advanced coal- power programs, carbon capture and sequestration,
   fuel cells and other hydrogen technology, and advanced oil and gas
   production and processing. These changes are designed to increase the
   responsiveness of DOE's fossil energy R&D to the carbon dioxide and
   oil-import challenges (including technology-export opportunities that
   could favorably affect other countries' carbon emissions and oil
   imports while improving the U.S. balance of payments), and to improve
   the program's complementarity with (or help to stimulate) R&D efforts
   in the private sector. ES-5 Our recommendations for R&D initiatives in
   the efficiency, renewables, fusion, fission, and fossil fuel components
   of DOE's applied energy-technology portfolio are described in more
   detail later in this Executive Summary and are summarized, together
   with the budgets we propose for these efforts, in Table ES.3.
   Recommendations on Crosscutting Issues The Panel recommends that
   coordination between the Basic Energy Sciences program and the applied
   energy-technology programs be improved using mechanisms such as
   comanagement and cofunding. We recommend that the Department make a
   much more systematic effort in R&D portfolio analysis: portraying the
   diverse characteristics of different energy options in a way that
   facilitates comparisons and the development of appropriate portfolio
   balance, in light of the challenges facing energy R&D and in light of
   the nature of private sector and international efforts and the
   interaction of U.S. government R&D with them. After consideration of
   the market circumstances and public benefits associated with the
   energy-technology options for which we have recommended increased R&D,
   the Panel recommends that the nation adopt a commercialization strategy
   in specific areas complementing its public investments in R&D. This
   strategy should be designed to reduce the prices of the targeted
   technologies to competitive levels, and it should be limited in cost
   and duration. The Panel recommends that the government and
   government/national-laboratory/industry /university consortia should
   engage strongly in international energy technology R&D and, where
   appropriate, development and commercialization efforts to regain and/or
   maintain the scientific, technical, and market leadership of the United
   States in energy technology. We recommend that overall responsibility
   for the DOE energy R&D portfolio should be assigned to a single person
   reporting directly to the Secretary of Energy, and that, similarly, a
   single individual should be given the responsibility and authority for
   coordination of crosscutting programs between the applied-technology
   programs, reporting to the single person responsible for the overall
   R&D portfolio. The Panel recommends that
   industry/national-laboratory/university oversight committees should
   work with DOE to provide overall direction to energy R&D programs, with
   DOE facilitating and administering the process; and we recommend that
   all DOE energy R&D programs undergo outside technical peer review every
   1-2 years, while interim internal process- oriented reviews are reduced
   to a minimum. Additional recommendations and discussion on crosscutting
   issues appear later in this Executive Summary. ES-6 RATIONALE FOR THE
   RECOMMENDATIONS The rationale for the recommendations summarized
   above-and for others to be found in the more detailed treatment later
   in this Executive Summary-is presented in what follows in terms of the
   importance of energy to our national well-being, the evolution of U.S.
   and world energy supply and demand, the challenges this evolution poses
   to energy R&D, recent trends in public and private funding for energy
   R&D, and the implications of those trends (and the energy R&D status
   quo) for the prospects of meeting the energy and environmental
   challenges of the next century. The Importance of Energy The
   characteristics of the technologies available to this nation and others
   for energy supply and energy end-use are critical to our country's
   economic well-being, environmental quality, and national security: *
   Economically, expenditures on energy account for 7 to 8 percent of
   gross economic product in the United States and worldwide and a similar
   fraction of the value of U.S. and world trade. Experience has shown
   that periods of excessive energy costs are associated with inflation,
   recession, and frustrated economic aspirations. Sales of new
   energy-supply technologies globally run in the multi-hundreds of
   billions of dollars per year. * Environmentally, energy supply accounts
   for a large share of the most worrisome environmental problems at every
   geographic scale-from woodsmoke in Third World village huts, to
   regional smogs and acid precipitation in industrialized and developing
   countries alike, to the risk of widespread radioactive contamination
   from accidents at nuclear energy facilities, to the build-up of carbon
   dioxide and other heat-trapping gases in the global atmosphere. *
   National security is linked to energy through the increasing dependence
   of this country and many others on imported oil, much of it from the
   politically troubled Middle East; through the danger that
   nuclear-weapons-relevant knowledge and materials will be transferred
   from civilian nuclear energy programs into national nuclear arsenals or
   terrorist bombs; and through the potential for large-scale failures of
   energy strategy with economic or environmental consequences serious
   enough to generate or aggravate social and political instability.
   Scientific and technological progress, achieved through R&D, is crucial
   to minimizing current and future difficulties associated with these
   interactions between energy and well-being, and crucial to maximizing
   the opportunities. If the pace of such progress is not sufficient, the
   future will be less prosperous economically, more afflicted
   environmentally, and more burdened with conflict than most people
   expect. And if the pace of progress is sufficient elsewhere but not in
   the United States, this country's position of scientific and
   technological leadership-and with it ES-7 much of the basis of our
   economic competitiveness, our military security, and our leadership in
   world affairs-will be compromised. Past, Present, and Projected
   Patterns of Energy Supply The challenges and opportunities associated
   with the economic, environmental, and national security dimensions of
   energy have become what they are primarily as a consequence of the
   tremendous increase in energy use, and especially fossil fuel use, over
   the past century and a half. This increase, in which world energy use
   grew 20-fold between 1850 and 1995 and fossil fuel use increased more
   than 100-fold, arose principally from the combination of population
   growth and rapid economic development in the industrialized countries.
   In contrast, by far the largest part of the future growth of world
   energy use is expected to take place in the currently less developed
   countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Today, with nearly 80
   percent of the world's population, these countries still account for
   only a third of the energy use. But if recent trends continue (the
   "business as usual" energy future), they will pass the industrialized
   countries in total energy use (and in carbon dioxide emissions) between
   2020 and 2030, and their growth will be the primary driver of a
   doubling in global energy use between 1995 and 2030 and a quadrupling
   between 1995 and 2100. Energy use in industrialized countries would
   continue to increase in a business-as-usual future, but not as rapidly
   as in the less developed countries and not as rapidly as in the past. A
   business-as-usual energy trajectory for the United States would entail
   increases in energy use, above the 1995 level, of about 40 percent by
   2030 and nearly 75 percent by 2100. The fossil fuels-oil, natural gas,
   and coal-accounted for 75 percent of energy supply worldwide in 1995.
   The remainder was nuclear energy (6 percent), hydropower (6 percent),
   and biomass fuels (13 percent, mostly fuelwood in developing
   countries), with wind, solar, and geothermal energy together
   contributing less than half a percent. The dominance of the fossil
   fuels would decline only slowly in a business-as-usual future: the
   world as a whole would still be obtaining perhaps two-thirds of all its
   energy needs from fossil fuels in 2030 and half or more in 2100. Fossil
   fuel resources are adequate to support such an outcome, albeit perhaps
   with higher dependence on coal than today, relative to oil and gas. The
   United States obtained 85 percent of its energy from fossil fuels in
   1995, nearly 40 percent from oil alone (of which half was imported).
   U.S. fossil fuel dependence, like that of the rest of the world, would
   decline only slowly in a business-as-usual future. U.S. oil imports,
   according to the "reference" forecast of the Department of Energy,
   would grow from 9 million barrels per day in 1995 to 14 million barrels
   per day in 2015 and continue to increase for some time thereafter. ES-8
   The Challenge to Energy R&D Improvements in energy technology can and
   must play a major role in reducing the costs, increasing the benefits,
   and alleviating the perils that a business-as-usual energy future
   without such improvements would be likely to entail. Energy-technology
   improvements, achieved in the United States and then deployed here and
   elsewhere, could: * lower the monetary costs of supplying energy; *
   lower its effective costs still further by increasing the efficiency of
   its end uses; * increase the productivity of U.S. manufacturing; *
   increase U.S. exports of high-technology energy-supply and
   energy-end-use products and know-how; * reduce over-dependence on oil
   imports here and in other countries, thus reducing the risk of
   oil-price shocks and alleviating a potential source of conflict; *
   diversify the domestic fuel-supply and electricity-supply portfolios to
   build resilience against the shocks and surprises that an uncertain
   future is likely to deliver; * reduce the emissions of air pollutants
   hazardous to human health and to ecosystems; * improve the safety and
   proliferation resistance of nuclear energy operations around the world;
   * slow the build-up of heat-trapping gases in the global atmosphere;
   and * enhance the prospects for environmentally sustainable and
   politically stabilizing economic development in the many of the world's
   potential trouble spots. The direct and indirect effects of the pursuit
   of improved energy technologies for these purposes through
   appropriately sized, tailored, and publicized R&D programs, moreover,
   will strengthen this country's science and technology base, bolster our
   research universities, build effective industry/government/university
   partnerships, help to stem the decline in enrollments of our most
   talented young people in science and engineering disciplines, and
   contribute to maintaining the global leadership and influence of the
   United States in relation to scientific and technological developments
   worldwide and their application to the betterment of the human
   condition. ES-9 Among all of these good reasons for adequately funded,
   suitably focused, effectively managed energy R&D, one is particularly
   demanding in what it requires of the R&D effort: the need to expand the
   array of energy technologies available for responding cost-effectively
   to the risk of global climatic change from greenhouse gases, most
   importantly carbon dioxide from fossil fuel combustion. Many of the
   characteristics of this risk and of society's potential responses to it
   are subject to considerable uncertainty and controversy. These
   characteristics aspects include the pace at which climatic change may
   become more obvious as greenhouse-gas concentrations grow, the
   magnitude and geographic distribution of the ecological and human
   consequences of such change, and the impacts on the U.S. and world
   economies of various measures that might be undertaken to constrain
   carbon dioxide emissions. If greenhouse-gas-induced climate change were
   to develop along the path deemed most likely in the latest assessment
   by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), there would be
   a significant chance that changes in patterns of temperature, humidity,
   rainfall, soil moisture, and ocean circulation, plus increases in sea
   level, would be adversely impacting human well-being over substantial
   areas of the planet by some time in the twenty-first century. The IPCC
   assessment also indicates that slowing the build-up of carbon dioxide
   in the atmosphere will be very difficult to achieve, because of the
   upward pressure of population growth and economic aspirations on energy
   demand, the large energy contribution and long turnover time of the
   fossil fuel technologies that are the primary source of CO2 emissions,
   and the long residence time of this gas in the atmosphere. Of course,
   the work of the IPCC to date will not be the last word on the issue of
   greenhouse-gas-induced climate change. Some members of the research
   community think the IPCC's projections of future climate change and its
   consequences are too pessimistic. Others think they are too optimistic.
   And some contend that adaptation to climate change would be less
   difficult and less costly than trying to prevent the change, whereas
   others argue that a strategy combining prevention and adaptation is
   likely to be both cheaper and safer than one relying on adaptation
   alone. Within our own Panel there are significant differences of view
   on some of these questions. Notwithstanding these differences, however,
   the Panel members are in complete agreement about the implications of
   the climate-change issue for energy R&D strategy: * First, there is a
   significant possibility that governments will decide, in light of the
   perceived risks of greenhouse-gas-induced climate change and the
   perceived benefits of a mixed prevention/adaptation strategy, that
   emissions of greenhouse gases from energy systems should be reduced
   substantially and soon. Prudence therefore requires having in place an
   adequate energy R&D effort designed to expand the array of
   technological options available for accomplishing this at the lowest
   possible economic, environmental, and social cost. ES-10 * Second,
   because of the large role of fossil fuel technologies in the current
   U.S. and world energy systems, the technical difficulty and cost of
   modifying these technologies to reduce their carbon dioxide emissions,
   their long turnover times, their economic attractiveness compared to
   most of the currently available alternatives, and the long times
   typically required to develop new alternatives to the point of
   commercialization, the possibility of a mandate to significantly
   constrain greenhouse-gas emissions is the most demanding of all of the
   looming energy challenges in what it requires of national and
   international energy R&D efforts. * Third (and this finally is the good
   news about the greenhouse-gas issue), many of the energy-technology
   improvements that would be attractive for this purpose also could
   contribute importantly to addressing some of the other energy-related
   challenges that lie ahead, including reducing dependence on imported
   oil; diversifying the U.S. domestic fuel- and electricity-supply
   systems; expanding U.S. exports of energy-supply and energy-end-use
   technologies and know-how; reducing air and water pollution from fossil
   fuel technologies; reducing the cost and safety and security risks of
   nuclear energy systems around the world; fostering sustainable and
   stabilizing economic development; and strengthening U.S. leadership in
   science and technology. Energy R&D Spending in Decline Society's
   capacity to respond effectively to the challenges described above will
   be determined in large measure by the output of its energy R&D efforts
   (as well as by the success of measures undertaken to ensure that the
   output is effectively deployed), and the output of R&D efforts will be
   substantially affected (with variations depending on the efficiency
   with which the R&D is managed and conducted) by the input, that is, by
   R&D spending. Nonetheless, while the challenges looming in the energy
   future of the United States and the world have been growing in recent
   years-or at least growing more apparent-expenditures on R&D have been
   declining. In the United States, this has been the case in both the
   public and the private sectors, although the decline in funding from
   the public sector has been considerably steeper than the decline in
   funding from industry. Government funding for energy R&D has also been
   falling in most other industrialized countries, with the conspicuous
   exception of Japan. (The Panel was not able to compile plausible
   estimates of trends in private sector R&D funding in other countries.)
   By far the largest part of Federal funding for energy R&D (about 90
   percent) comes from DOE. The Department's FY 1997 budget for applied
   energy-technology R&D was $1.28 billion, compared to $2.18 billion five
   years earlier, in FY 1992, and $6.15 billion twenty years earlier, in
   FY 1978 (all figures in constant 1997 dollars). If one includes DOE's
   funding for Basic Energy Sciences, the energy R&D decline was from
   $6.55 billion in FY 1978 to $3.04 billion in FY 1992 to $1.92 billion
   in FY 1997. Thus, the decrease in the past 5 years was between 37 and
   42 percent, depending on whether Basic Energy Sciences is included in
   the totals, and the decrease between 1978 and 1997 was between 3.4- and
   ES-11 4.8-fold. As a fraction of real GDP, DOE's 1997 spending for
   energy technology was less than half that of DOE's predecessor agencies
   30 years earlier, in 1967, at the height of pre-oil-shock American
   complacency about energy supply and energy prices. Although data for
   energy R&D in the U.S. private sector are less comprehensive than those
   for government spending, the most recent systematic study of
   energy-industry R&D trends found that the industry's spending for R&D
   fell 40 percent in real terms between 1985 and 1994, from $4.4 billion
   to $2.6 billion. The R&D spending of the 112 largest U.S. operating
   electric utilities fell 38 percent between 1993 and 1996 alone, and the
   R&D of the four U.S. oil firms with the largest research efforts
   approximately halved between 1990 and 1996. There is evidence that
   Federal and private investments in R&D in general (that is, not for
   energy alone) tend to rise and fall together, rather than one's rising
   in compensation when the other goes down. State government funding of
   energy R&D in the United States, which was probably under $200 million
   in 1995, may follow electric-utility funding downward. In the G-7
   countries other than the United States and Japan, public sector energy
   R&D has fallen sharply, decreasing between 1984 and 1994 by more than
   4-fold in both Germany and Italy, by about 6-fold in the United
   Kingdom, and by 2-fold in Canada. Public spending on energy R&D in
   France, for which 1984 figures were not available, was declining slowly
   between 1990 and 1995. Japan, however, increased its public sector
   energy R&D spending from about $1.5 billion in 1974 to $4.2 billion in
   1980; by 1995, the figure was $4.9 billion, about twice as high as
   DOE's energy R&D spending (Basic Energy Sciences included) in that
   year. Explanations and Implications of the Declines in Public and
   Private R&D Many explanations for the overall downward trends in energy
   R&D in recent years suggest themselves. One important factor is surely
   low energy prices. World oil prices fell sharply after 1980, and in the
   1990s they have been about where they were in the 1920s and in the
   1950s (in inflation-corrected dollars); and natural gas prices in the
   United States are so low that no other means of electricity generation
   can compete with gas-fired combined-cycle power plants where gas is
   available. This situation discourages investment in the development of
   new energy technologies. The very large demonstration projects in
   fossil, nuclear, and renewable energy that accounted for much of the
   post-oil-shock increase in U.S. Federal energy R&D spending came to be
   regarded as costly anachronisms after prices fell again, and their
   cancellation was, for the most part, appropriate. In addition, public
   sector spending on energy R&D has experienced downward pressure from
   overall budgetary stringency in government and from public and
   policymaker complacency attributable to low prices, no gasoline lines,
   and high confidence in the capacity of the United States and allied
   military forces to preserve access to Middle East oil. DOE has
   experienced particular budget-inhibiting scrutiny by critics of "big
   government," and its energy R&D spending has been further constrained
   from within by pressure from larger parts of the Department's budget
   (notably environmental cleanup and nuclear-weapons programs). ES-12 In
   the competitive environment of declining government spending on energy
   R&D, moreover, advocates of each energy option have tended to disparage
   the prospects of the other options, in hopes of gaining a greater share
   of the budget for their favorite. Thus, the energy community itself has
   formulated the arguments that budget-cutters have used to downsize
   energy R&D programs one at a time ("renewables are too costly," "fossil
   fuels are too dirty", "nuclear fission is too risky", "fusion will
   never work", "conservation means sacrifice"), with no coherent
   energy-community voice calling for a responsible portfolio approach to
   energy R&D-that is, an approach that seeks to address and ameliorate
   the shortcomings of all of the options. The private sector, meanwhile,
   has been experiencing a paradigm shift driven by the increasing
   globalization of the economy, the revolution in information technology,
   the increasing power of shareholders and financial markets over
   corporate decisions, and deregulation and restructuring in important
   parts of the energy business. These factors have combined with low
   energy prices and the inherently low profit margins of commodity-based
   businesses to cause energy companies to place more emphasis on the
   short-term bottom line, to decrease risk taking on broad-based or
   long-range R&D projects, and to outsource their R&D to specialized R&D
   contractors (which may represent a part of private sector energy R&D
   that is not shrinking). It is also possible, finally, that energy R&D
   in the private sector, the public sector, or both has become more
   efficient, in which case declining inputs (funding) need not mean
   correspondingly declining outputs (innovations that can be successfully
   marketed or that otherwise improve the human condition). The Panel
   hopes that this is so, although it is difficult to verify (partly
   because there are often significant time lags between the conduct of
   research and its effects on the actual flow of innovations, so that if
   outputs remained high while inputs fell this might be a temporary
   condition). In any case, that the overall declines in both public
   sector and private sector funding for R&D are largely explainable, and
   that some of what has disappeared was not needed or effective, does not
   establish whether what remains is adequate in relation to current and
   future needs. In the private sector, energy R&D has been an important
   engine of progress, enabling firms to improve their products and invent
   new ones, so as to increase their shares of existing markets, establish
   and penetrate new ones, and maintain or increase performance while
   reducing costs. Perhaps these benefits will flow in adequate measure
   from the new paradigm; but it is also possible that important parts of
   an industrial R&D system that has served our society extremely well for
   many decades are now being sacrificed for short-term gain. Concerns
   have been expressed that the trend toward decentralization of
   industrial R&D, for example, could erode the interconnectedness among
   people and among different bodies of knowledge that contributes much to
   technological innovation in the long term. Public sector R&D funding
   has the responsibility for addressing needs and opportunities where the
   potential benefits to society warrant a greater investment than the
   prospective returns to the private sector can elicit. Such needs and
   opportunities relate to public goods (such as the national security
   benefits of limiting dependence on foreign oil), externalities (such as
   unpenalized and unregulated environmental impacts), and situations
   where lack of appropriability of the ES-13 research results, or the
   structure of the market, or the size of the risk, or the scale of the
   investment, or the length of the time horizon before potential gains
   can be realized dilute incentives for firms to conduct R&D that would
   greatly benefit society as a whole. Needs for public sector R&D can
   increase over time if the public-goods and externality challenges grow
   or if changing conditions shrink the incentives of firms to conduct
   some kinds of R&D that promise high returns to society. We have said
   enough already to suggest that both things might recently have been
   happening. But the real test of whether the current portfolio of public
   energy R&D is adequate comes from asking whether the R&D programs in
   the portfolio are addressing, effectively and efficiently, all of the
   needs and opportunities where the prospects of substantial societal
   benefits are good and the prospective returns to the private sector are
   insufficient to elicit the needed R&D. The Panel has analyzed DOE's
   energy R&D portfolio in these terms. ELABORATION OF FINDINGS AND
   RECOMMENDATIONS We turn now to what we found, first in relation to the
   content of the portfolio's major energy-technology compartments-end-use
   efficiency, fossil fuel technologies, nuclear technologies (fission and
   fusion), and renewable energy technologies-and then in relation to
   crosscutting issues including the role of Basic Energy Sciences,
   portfolio analysis, commercialization considerations, international
   dimensions, and DOE management of its energy R&D programs.
   End-Use-Efficiency Technology Between 1975 and 1986, the United States
   increased its energy efficiency by almost a third. This extraordinary
   achievement helped pull the country out of its two oil shocks and their
   attendant stagflation. Efficiency improvements now save U.S. consumers
   some $170 billion per year, and U.S. emissions of air pollution and CO2
   have been reduced by a third or more from their expected values.
   Challenges and Opportunities Those achievements are instructive as we
   look at future energy, economic, and environmental issues.
   Technological advances and investments in energy efficiency helped
   rescue the U.S. economy once, and gave the country decades of breathing
   room to deal with the energy problem. Many of these advances were made
   possible by DOE-sponsored R&D. Can a similar improvement be achieved in
   the years ahead? The Panel believes it can. We find that investments in
   energy efficiency are generally the most cost-effective way to
   simultaneously reduce the risks of climate change, world oil-supply
   interruptions, and local air pollution, and to improve the productivity
   of the economy. We have reviewed technologies that can reduce energy
   use in automobiles by half or more; in motors and drive systems by
   half; and in buildings by over 70 percent. Many of these technologies
   are in their ES-14 infancy and require a serious R&D effort to make
   them commercially viable. Others are near market readiness, but need
   standards and incentives to ensure they spread rapidly. Budget, Goals,
   and Initiatives The Panel recommends that the R&D components of the
   DOE's energy efficiency budget grow steadily over the next 5 years,
   from $373 million to $755 million (constant 1997 dollars). The Panel
   has identified the following goals (some pre-existing, and some newly
   proposed here) for each of the sectors: Buildings. To fund and carry
   out research on equipment, materials, electronic and other related
   technologies and work in partnership with industry, universities, and
   state and local governments to enable by 2010: (1) the construction of
   1 million zero-net-energy buildings; and (2) the construction of all
   new buildings with an average 25-percent increase in energy efficiency
   as compared to a new building in 1996. Additional longer term research
   in advanced energy systems and components will enable all new
   construction to average 70 percent reductions and all renovations to
   average 50 percent reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions by 2030.
   Industry. By 2005, develop with industry a more than 40-percent
   efficient microturbine (40 to 300 kW), and introduce a 50-percent
   efficient microturbine by 2010. By 2005, develop with industry and
   commercially introduce advanced materials for combustion systems to
   reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides by 30 to 50 percent while
   increasing efficiency 5 to 10 percent. By 2010, achieve a more than
   one-fourth improvement in energy intensity of the major energy-
   consuming industries (forest products, steel, aluminum, metal casting,
   chemicals, petroleum refining, and glass) and by 2020 a 20 percent
   improvement in energy efficiency and emissions of the next generation
   of these industries. Transportation. By 2004, develop with industry an
   80-mile-per-gallon production prototype passenger car (existing goal of
   the Partnership for a New Generation of Vehicles- PNGV). By 2005,
   introduce a 10-mpg heavy truck (Classes 7 and 8) with ultra low
   emissions and the ability to use different fuels (existing goal); and
   achieve 13 mpg by 2010. By 2010, have a production prototype of a
   100-mpg passenger car with zero equivalent emissions. By 2010, achieve
   at least a tripling in the fuel economy of Class 1-2 trucks, and double
   the fuel economy of Class 3-6 trucks. The R&D areas requiring increased
   funding to meet these goals have been identified. The Department has a
   sufficiently rich agenda, management expertise, history of success, and
   most important, potential for future contribution, to justify these
   increases. Further Findings and Recommendations The buildings program
   needs high-profile leadership from within the Administration, closer
   links with industry, and better mechanisms to distribute its research
   results. These elements could be brought together in the "Buildings for
   the 21st Century Initiative." The codes and ES-15 standards program
   needs to be expanded to give greater technical assistance to states and
   to speed internal progress. The industries program is effective. It
   should be expanded to include more industries, and the crosscutting
   research-which develops technologies for use in many industries-should
   grow significantly. Transportation research, most notably the PNGV, is
   extremely valuable. The PNGV program is insufficiently funded and
   cannot meet all its goals at current levels. It should be complemented
   by a "PNGV II" to augment efforts on long-term technologies, such as
   fuel cells, with extraordinary potential after 2005. PNGV also needs to
   give greater attention to air-quality issues, to ensure that
   technologies selected do not undermine national and state clean-air
   programs. The Administration must also develop new transportation
   policies that shift the auto fleet, over time, toward higher
   efficiency. And advanced vehicle development programs should be
   coordinated with alternative fuels programs to ensure they are
   complementary for transportation systems of the future. R&D in the
   Department of Transportation should be reorganized around clear public
   interest goals, and Transportation's energy and environmental pursuits
   should be consonant with DOE's goals. The Department of Transportation
   should pursue more multimodal research and system optimization and
   should increase its focus on developing integrated transit systems with
   improved efficiency, to reduce urban congestion and enhance air
   quality. The Automated Highway System research needs to be thoroughly
   evaluated, key technical assumptions must be documented and
   peer-reviewed, and then the program should be reorganized around the
   public interest goals mentioned above. Increasing energy efficiency has
   an extraordinary payoff. It simultaneously saves billions of dollars,
   reduces oil imports and trade deficits, cuts local and regional air
   pollution, and cuts emissions of carbon dioxide. DOE research,
   complemented by sound policy, can help the country increase energy
   efficiency by a third or more in the next 15 to 20 years. Fossil-Energy
   Technology Fossil fuels supply 85 percent of U.S. energy and 75 percent
   of all energy globally. They will continue to be essential to the
   energy economies of the United States and the world well into the
   twenty-first century. R&D on fossil fuel technologies is warranted to
   minimize the costs, impacts, and risks of this continuing reliance on
   fossil fuels and to exploit the opportunities it represents for U.S.
   industry and the U.S. economy. Challenges and Opportunities DOE Fossil
   Energy R&D programs are directed-appropriately in the Panel's judgment-
   at two important challenges: (1) reducing the environmental impacts
   (including CO2 emissions) that constrain fossil fuel use; and (2)
   reducing the vulnerability of the economy to oil price shocks (caused
   by excessive dependence on imported oil and potential instabilities in
   the Middle East) by ES-16 helping ensure the availability of secure and
   affordable transportation fuels. In the process, the Department aims to
   maintain U.S. science and technology leadership in fossil fuel related
   fields. Over the past two decades, enormous progress has been made in
   reducing the environmental impacts of fossil fuel use-particularly of
   coal use in electric power production-in cost-effective ways. This
   progress has partly been the result of DOE/industry collaborative R&D
   and the Clean Coal Technology Demonstration Program. DOE seeks to
   maintain this progress through pursuit of an idea called Vision 21,
   with the objective of economical coal and gas power and fuels
   technology with zero-to-small CO2 emissions and very low emissions of
   other air pollutants. This is a most ambitious goal, requiring
   significant breakthroughs to achieve very high efficiencies of
   conversion to electricity (and fuels) and cost-effective methods for
   separating and sequestering CO2. In the United States, natural gas has
   become the fuel of choice for new electric generation because of its
   low cost, small environmental impacts, relatively small scale (yielding
   versatile siting and quick installation), and rapidly advancing turbine
   technology, and because of the competitive pressures of electric
   industry restructuring. This trend to natural gas is likely to continue
   for several decades and contributes positively to DOE's environmental
   objective, particularly by reducing CO2 emissions to the extent that
   gas replaces coal. As a consequence, the major markets for advanced
   coal power and fuels technologies will not be in the United States but
   in coal-intensive developing countries such as China and India, where
   gas is not widely available for these purposes. Providing attractive
   coal technologies that are much more efficient with greatly reduced CO2
   and other emissions contributes to DOE environmental objectives. For
   the United States to take advantage of this environmental opportunity,
   it must maintain technological leadership in coal power technologies
   and develop a strong international program including collaborative R&D,
   development, and commercialization activities. This will require a
   paradigm shift away from the current focus on the U.S. market and
   toward a focus on coal-intensive developing countries. Relative to the
   challenge of ensuring secure and affordable transportation fuels, DOE
   R&D is developing and demonstrating technologies that can enhance
   domestic oil and gas production, diversify supply, and reduce the cost
   of converting natural gas (and coal, biomass, and waste) to clean fuels
   for transportation. Activities to enhance production include technology
   transfer to independent oil and gas producers to help bolster
   production from mature resources and high-risk R&D investments at the
   front end of the resource cycle for frontier provinces. The potential
   return to the government from taxes and royalties alone justifies the
   investment, not to mention reducing balance-of-payment imbalance and
   losses to the economy in the event of a future oil-price shock. It is
   good insurance both from the point of view of oil dependence and for
   the climate change issue because of the importance of natural gas as a
   transition fuel during the next century. ES-17 Budget, Goals, and
   Initiatives The Panel's analysis of these challenges and opportunities
   leads us to recommend that the Fossil Energy budget remain at about the
   current level in constant dollars but with a significant reorientation
   and new initiatives aimed at Vision 21, gas as a transition fuel, and a
   comprehensive transportation fuel R&D strategy. Coal and Gas Power and
   Fuels. The Panel endorses Vision 21 as the long-term objective and
   recommends reorientation of DOE R&D priorities toward it. This should
   include continued emphasis to improve efficiency of the combined cycle
   using high temperature fuel cells, development of advanced gasification
   technologies (for coal, biomass, or waste) for the flexible production
   of power and clean transportation liquid fuels (ultimately hydrogen and
   separated CO2). It should also include initiating a science-based
   CO2-sequestration program in cooperation with the US Geological Survey,
   industry, and universities, with an annual budget rising to $20 million
   dollars or more in 2003. Hydrogen may prove to be the transportation
   fuel of the future if fuel cells become the power source of choice for
   vehicles, and fossil fuels are the likely least expensive route to
   hydrogen assuming sequestration is practical. Phaseouts. As part of
   this reorientation, the Panel recommends that the Department terminate:
   (1) direct liquefaction of coal, because it does not fit Vision 21; (2)
   the solid fuels and feedstocks program, directing the funding instead
   toward a comprehensive, science-based program to reduce hazardous air
   emissions from existing and future coal power plants; and (3) the Low
   Emissions Boiler System program. It should phase out near-term
   clean-coal programs that do not contribute to Vision 21 or to providing
   much better low-CO2-emissions technology choices for developing
   countries. Oil and Gas Production and Processing. Because of its
   importance as a transition fuel for the United States in controlling
   CO2 emissions, the Panel recommends more intense effort on natural gas
   production and processing, including a major initiative for DOE to work
   with USGS, the Naval Research Lab, Mineral Management Services, and the
   industry to evaluate the production potential of methane hydrates in US
   coastal waters and worldwide. The resource is very large indeed, in the
   range of 100,000 to 1,000,000 Tcf (trillion cubic feet). This research
   might well interface with hydrogen-production and CO2-sequestration
   efforts with CO2 hydrates as the sequestered state of the gas.
   Transportation Fuels Strategy. The Panel recommends that DOE develop a
   comprehensive transportation fuels strategy, beginning with an analysis
   of the potential for technologies to increase the price elasticity of
   oil supply and demand including the impact of substitutes. This effort
   should include, for example, R&D focused on reducing the cost of
   producing transportation fuels from natural gas and work on indirect
   liquefaction of coal and biomass. Such an effort is supportive of
   Vision 21 and may improve its flexibility for combined fuel and power
   generation, including eventually producing hydrogen for central or
   distributed use with CO2 sequestering. ES-18 Nuclear Energy Technology
   Nuclear energy can be generated by fission (the splitting of a nucleus)
   or by fusion (the joining of two nuclei). Neither fission nor fusion
   reactions generate greenhouse gases or the air pollutants that produce
   urban smogs and regional acid precipitation. Fission power currently
   provides about 17 percent of the world's electric power, with 442
   nuclear power reactors operating in 30 countries and 36 more plants
   under construction. Fusion power requires much additional work in the
   quest to make the fusion reaction self-sustaining and to design and
   build practical fusion power plants; the most optimistic timetable for
   fusion to reach commercialization is another half century. But the
   potential benefits of fusion are so large that fusion R&D is an
   important component of current energy R&D portfolios in the United
   States and internationally. Challenges and Opportunities: Fission
   Several problems compromise fission's potential as an expandable energy
   source today and into the future: disposal of spent nuclear fuel;
   concerns about nuclear weapons proliferation; concerns about the safe
   operation of plants; and uncompetitive economics. But given the
   projected growth in global energy demand as developing nations
   industrialize, and given the desirability of stabilizing and reducing
   GHG emissions, it is important to establish fission energy as a widely
   viable and expandable option if this is at all possible. A properly
   focused R&D effort to address the problems of nuclear fission
   power-economics, safety, waste, proliferation-is therefore appropriate.
   World leadership in nuclear energy technologies and the underlying
   science is also vital to the United States from the perspective of
   national security, international influence, and global stability.
   Although the United States has the largest number of operating reactors
   of any country in the world, the outlook is that no new nuclear plant
   will be built in this country in the next 10 to 20 years. The decline
   of nuclear power in the United States has resulted from many factors: a
   sharp drop in annual electricity consumption growth rates, low gas
   prices and improved efficiency of gas-fired combined-cycle plants,
   rapid escalation of nuclear plant construction costs, the unresolved
   problems of waste disposal and storage, and concerns about
   proliferation and safety. These factors, combined with the upcoming
   deregulation of the electric utilities, may lead to early shutdown of
   operating nuclear plants in the United States. Budget, Goals, and
   Initiatives: Fission Based on its analysis of the potential and
   problems of fission power, the PCAST Energy R&D Panel recommends that
   nuclear fission R&D be increased from $42 million in FY 1997 to $119
   million in FY2003 (as-spent dollars). Included in these totals
   throughout the period is about $6 million per year for university
   programs, including fellowships and fuel support for university
   reactors. The Panel makes the following further observations and
   recommendations about the fission R&D effort: Operating Reactors.
   Extending the operation of nuclear plants will make it easier to meet
   GHG emission goals. The Panel recommends that DOE work with its
   laboratories and the utility ES-19 industry to develop a program to
   address the problems that may prevent continued operation of current
   plants. We recommend such a program be funded at $10 million per year,
   to be matched by industry. Nuclear Energy Research Initiative. DOE
   should establish a new program-the Nuclear Energy Research
   Initiative-funded initially at $50 million per year and increasing by
   FY 2002 to $100 million per year (as-spent dollars), which would
   competitively select among proposals by researchers from universities,
   national laboratories, and industry to address key issues affecting the
   future of fission energy including: proliferation-resistant reactors or
   fuel cycles; new reactor designs with higher efficiency, lower-cost,
   and improved safety to compete in the global market; lower-output
   reactors for use in settings where large reactors are not attractive;
   and new techniques for on-site and surface storage and for permanent
   disposal of nuclear waste. This approach is in contrast to the
   traditional style of directed research of the DOE Nuclear Energy
   program (in which the program office defines the topics, milestones,
   and scope) and follows instead a model along the lines of the
   Environmental Management Science Program (EMSP). Coordination. DOE
   should improve coordination and integration among the eight DOE program
   offices sponsoring R&D applicable to fission energy. Challenges and
   Opportunities: Fusion The objective of DOE's fusion energy sciences
   program is to develop the scientific and technological basis for fusion
   as a long-term energy option for the United States and the world. The
   fusion R&D program is strongly centered in basic research and supports
   the important field of plasma science. Results and techniques from
   fusion plasma science have had fundamental and pervasive impact in many
   other scientific fields, and they have made substantial contributions
   to industry and manufacturing. Since 1970, fusion power in experiments
   has increased from less than 0.1 watt to more than 10 megawatts. The
   nation's fusion energy research program has received three major
   reviews since 1990, the most comprehensive being the 1995 study by the
   PCAST Panel on the U.S. Program of Fusion Energy Research and
   Development (PCAST-95). PCAST-95 recommended an annual budget of $320
   million. In FY 1996, Congress reduced the fusion budget by about
   one-third and directed DOE to restructure its fusion energy program.
   The present funding level of $230 million is too low in the view of the
   PCAST Energy R&D panel; it allows no significant U.S. activity relating
   to participation in an international program to develop practical
   low-activation materials; reduces the level of funding for the design
   of the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER); forced
   an early shutdown for the largest U.S. fusion experiment; and canceled
   the next major U.S. plasma science and fusion experiment. It also
   limited the resources available to explore alternative fusion concepts.
   Budgets, Goals, and Initiatives: Fusion Based on its analysis of the
   potential of fusion power and the challenges and opportunities in this
   field, as just described, the PCAST Energy R&D Panel recommends that
   fusion R&D ES-20 funding be increased from its annual level of $232
   million in the FY 1997 appropriation to reach $320 million per year by
   FY2002 (as-spent dollars). This would restore fusion R&D funding to the
   level which the 1995 PCAST study of fusion-energy R&D recommended be
   maintained from FY 1996 onward. The Panel reaffirms support also for
   the specific elements of the 1995 PCAST recommendation that the
   program's budget-constrained strategy be based on three key principles:
   (1) a strong domestic core program in plasma science and fusion
   technology; (2) a collaboratively funded international fusion
   experiment focused on the key next-step scientific issue of ignition
   and moderately sustained burn; and (3) participation in an
   international program to develop practical low-activation materials for
   fusion energy systems. The Panel makes the following further
   observations about the fusion R&D effort: International Collaborations.
   The U.S. program should establish significant collaborations with both
   the JET program in Europe and the JT-60 program in Japan. Such
   collaboration should provide experience in experiments that are
   prototypes for a burning plasma machine, such as ITER, and that can
   explore driven burning plasma discharges. ITER. The Panel judges that
   the proposed 3-year transition between completion of the Engineering
   Design Activity and an international decision to construct is
   reasonable and that the ITER effort merits continued U.S. involvement.
   It would be helpful to all parties in the ITER enterprise if at least
   one of the parties would express, within the next year or two, its
   intention to offer a specific site for ITER construction by the end of
   the 3-year period. Clearly, one major hurdle to ITER construction is
   its total project cost, most recently estimated to be $11.4 billion,
   with the host party expected to fund a substantial share. If the
   parties agree to move forward to construction, the United States should
   be prepared to determine, with stakeholder input, what the level and
   nature of its involvement should be. The Panel believes that if no
   party offers to host ITER in the next three years, it will nonetheless
   be vital to continue without delay the international pursuit of fusion
   energy. A more modestly scaled and priced device aimed at a mutually
   agreed upon set of scientific objectives focused on the key next-step
   issue of burning plasma physics may make it easier for all parties to
   come to agreement. Renewable Energy Technology Renewable energy
   technologies (RETs) can provide electricity, fuels for transport, heat
   and light for buildings, and power and process heat for industry. These
   technologies generally have little or no emissions of greenhouse gases,
   air pollutants, or other environmental impacts. RETs can also offset
   imports of foreign oil and offer important economic benefits; for
   example, growing biomass energy crops on excess agricultural lands
   would increase farm income while potentially allowing a reduction in
   Federal farm income support programs. Challenges and Opportunities The
   primary challenge facing RETs today is relatively high unit costs, but
   remarkable progress has been over the past two decades. Costs of energy
   from RETs such as wind turbines ES-21 and photovoltaics (PVs) have come
   down by as much as 10 times. Much further progress is expected, to the
   extent that RETs could become major contributors to U.S. and global
   energy needs over the next several decades. The Shell International
   Petroleum Company, for example, projects that by 2025 renewable energy
   sources could contribute to global energy one-half to two-thirds as
   much as fossil fuels do at present, with new renewable sources
   (excluding hydropower and traditional biomass) accounting for one-third
   to one-half of total renewables. Much of the global market growth for
   RETs, as well as for total energy, will take place in developing
   countries. The small scales and modularity of most RETs are well
   matched to energy technology needs in developing countries. Also, the
   inherent cleanliness of most RETS will have a special appeal, making it
   possible to reduce environmental problems without resorting to complex
   regulatory controls as is done for conventional energy systems. Budget,
   Goals, and Initiatives In light of the remarkable progress already made
   in many areas of DOE's Renewable Energy program, the good prospects for
   further gains, and the substantial potential impacts renewables could
   have in addressing the multiple challenges posed to the energy system
   in the United States and worldwide, the Panel believes that the
   Renewable Energy R&D Program should be substantially expanded, from
   annual spending of $270 million in FY 1997 to a level of about $650
   million in 2003 (as-spent dollars), with goals that include the
   following: Wind. Reduce by 2005 wind electricity costs to half of
   today's costs, so that wind power can be widely competitive with
   fossil-fuel-based electricity in a restructured electric industry,
   through R&D on a variety of advanced wind turbine concepts and
   manufacturing technologies. Photovoltaics (PV). Pursue R&D that would
   lead to PV systems prices falling from the present price of $6,000/kW
   to $3,000/kW in 5 years, to $1,500/kW by 2010, and to $1,000/kW by
   2020. R&D activities should include assisting industry in developing
   manufacturing technologies, giving greater attention to balance of
   system issues, and expanding fundamental research on advanced
   materials. Solar Thermal Electric Systems. Strengthen ongoing R&D for
   parabolic dish and heliostat/central-receiver technology with high
   temperature thermal storage, and develop high- temperature receivers
   combined with gas-turbine based power cycles; goals should be to make
   solar-only power (including baseload solar power) widely competitive
   with fossil fuel power by 2015. Biopower. Enable commercialization,
   within ten years, of advanced energy-efficient power-generating
   technologies that employ gas turbines and fuel cells integrated with
   biomass gasifiers, building on past and ongoing R&D for coal in such
   configurations, and exploiting the advantages of biomass over coal as a
   feedstock for gasification. These technologies could be widely
   competitive in many developing country markets and in U.S. markets that
   use biomass residues or use energy crops in systems that derive
   coproducts from biomass. ES-22 Geothermal Energy. Continue work on
   hydrothermal systems and reactivate R&D on advanced concepts, giving
   top priority to high-grade hot dry-rock geothermal; this technology
   offers the long-term potential, with advanced drilling and reservoir
   exploitation technology, of providing heat and baseload electricity in
   most areas. Biofuels. Accelerate core R&D on advanced enzymatic
   hydrolysis technology for making ethanol from cellulosic feedstocks,
   with the goal that, between 2010 and 2015, ethanol produced from energy
   crops would be fully competitive with gasoline as a neat fuel, in
   either internal combustion engine or fuel cell vehicles; coordinate
   this development with the biopower program so as to co-optimize the
   production of ethanol from the carbohydrate fractions of the biomass
   and electricity from the lignin using advanced biopower technology.
   Hydrogen. Carry out R&D on hydrogen-using and -producing technologies;
   coordinate hydrogen-using technology development with
   proton-exchange-membrane fuel-cell vehicle development activities in
   the Department's Energy Efficiency program. Give priority in
   hydrogen-production R&D to co-optimizing the production of hydrogen
   from fossil fuels and sequestration of the CO2 separated out during the
   production process, in collaboration with the Fossil Energy program.
   Hydropower. To sustain and increase over 92,000 MW of hydro capacity,
   additional R&D is needed to provide a new generation of turbine
   technologies that are less damaging to fish and aquatic ecosystems. By
   deploying such technologies at existing dams and in new low-head,
   run-of-river applications, as much as an additional 50,000 MW could be
   possible by 2030. Crosscutting and Other Programs. Crosscutting
   programs that should be strongly supported include Resource Assessment,
   International Programs, and Analysis. In addition, R&D is needed on
   energy storage, electric sytems, and systems integration. Further
   Findings and Recommendations The Panel believes that there are good
   prospects that these goals can be realized with the combination of an
   expanded R&D effort and appropriate demonstration and commercialization
   initiatives. The DOE program has demonstrated remarkable gains in
   technology performance and cost reductions and has laid the foundation
   for large further gains. The R&D effort should be intense over the
   course of the next decade, with much more emphasis than at present in
   DOE program on both core applied research and development and
   fundamental research directed to serving needs identified in the
   programs. For technologies that continue to show promise, R&D budgets
   should be sustained at the elevated levels for several years (the
   number varying with the technology) until the technologies become
   established in the market, the industry has sufficient revenues from
   these RET markets to shoulder a greater share of needed continuing R&D,
   and government's role can be reduced to supporting mainly long-term
   R&D. For both wind power and biopower, most of the principal R&D goals
   could be met in a decade or less; for these technologies, Federal R&D
   budget support ES-23 could thereafter begin to decline. For other
   technologies, it will take longer, but in nearly all cases principal
   program goals should be achievable in less than 20 years. Crosscutting
   Issues In what follows, we elaborate briefly our findings and
   recommendations relating to four sets of issues that cut across the
   applied energy-technology R&D programs discussed above: the relation of
   DOE's Basic Energy Sciences program to applied energy-technology R&D;
   analysis of the portfolio as a whole and the leverage it offers against
   the energy challenges faced by the nation and the world; considerations
   related to commercialization of the fruits of R&D; and certain
   international aspects of R&D. Links Between Applied Energy Technology
   R&D and Basic Energy Sciences The Panel's review of DOE energy R&D
   activities identified many areas where technological advance could be
   accelerated if more attention were given to fundamental questions
   identified in these programs. Examples include better understanding of
   reactions at the interface of electrodes and electrolytes in fuel
   cells, the capacity of carbon nanostructures for hydrogen storage, the
   chemistry and fluid dynamics of CO storage in saline aquifers, the
   physics of thin- 2 film photovoltaic materials, and many others. The
   Panel found that linkages between the Basic Energy Sciences (BES)
   programs (where such issues are investigated) and the applied energy-
   technology programs (where the findings could be put to use) need to be
   strengthened in many cases. While the technology programs do benefit
   today from the growing body of fundamental knowledge being generated
   under BES programs, they would benefit much more if BES were to address
   specific questions identified as important in these programs. The Panel
   recommends that BES allocate additional resources to support
   fundamental research activities addressing needs of the technology
   programs. This could be facilitated by mechanisms such as co-management
   and co-funding with-or budget sign-off by, or re-routing budgets
   through-the applied energy- technology programs. Our recommendation
   that BES direct some of its resources to serving these needs might
   raise concerns that the creativity of basic science will be lost if it
   is constrained by premature thought of practical use, and that applied
   research invariably drives out pure, if the two are mixed. What is
   being sought here, however, is not to redirect BES resources to applied
   research. The technology programs support applied research but give
   little attention to addressing fundamental questions such as the above.
   The net effect of this recommendation should be to expand, not
   diminish, the portfolio of fundamental research activities within the
   limits of overall budget constraints. In light of the growing interest
   among policy planners in harnessing science for the technological race
   in the global economy, the allocation of some BES resources to the
   development of fundamental research programs that would serve the
   energy technology programs should add to the political appeal of
   supporting basic research generally. ES-24 Portfolio Analysis and
   Leverage Developing the appropriate degree of diversity and balance in
   the Department's overall energy R&D portfolio is difficult.
   Technologies have many different attributes-cost (of the R&D to develop
   them and of the technologies themselves, once they are developed),
   performance, risk, return, potential contributions over time to energy
   and environmental goals, and others. How can one fairly evaluate the
   many R&D alternatives and select an R&D portfolio that best meets our
   national goals and needs? No single quantitative measure can encompass
   the range of relevant attributes. One technology may have substantial
   environmental benefits, a second may contribute more to national
   security, a third may have only modest benefits but have low risks and
   costs to develop. The Panel has worked hard at exploiting and refining
   various ways to portray the diverse characteristics of different energy
   options in a way that facilitates comparisons and the development of an
   appropriate portfolio balance in light of the challenges facing energy
   R&D and in light of the nature of private sector and international
   efforts and the interaction of U.S. government R&D with them. We have
   made some progress, but a much larger and continuing effort in this
   direction by the Department of Energy itself is called for. (In saying
   this we echo one of the strongest recommendations of the 1995 Secretary
   of Energy Advisory Board report on Strategic Energy R&D-a
   recommendation that alas has so far borne little fruit.) Such analyses
   should be done on a regular basis as national needs and R&D options and
   opportunities change. We recommend that DOE regularly and
   systematically conduct-with external peer review-a portfolio analysis
   across the breadth of R&D options and to use this as an input to
   overall program planning. The potential overall impact of the
   sector-by-sector energy R&D portfolio developed by the Panel can be
   illustrated by some simple "back-of-the-envelope" analyses. Examples
   for oil imports and carbon emissions are schematically shown in figures
   ES.1 and ES.2; details of these highly simplified projections are
   provided in Chapter 7. For clarity, only a few, highly aggregated sets
   of technologies are shown. Consider oil imports. Under
   business-as-usual conditions, U.S. oil imports could increase from 8.5
   million barrels per day at a cost of $64 billion dollars in 1996 to
   nearly 16 million barrels per day at a cost of $120 billion (assuming
   $20 dollars per barrel) in 2030. With continued R&D to increase
   domestic production from marginal oil supplies, an aggressive ethanol
   program (based on cellulosic biomass, not corn), and rapid development
   and penetration of the market by PNGV and light- and heavy-duty truck
   technologies, we estimate that this import could be reduced to
   something on the order of 6 million barrels per day oil import demand
   in 2030, as illustrated in Figure ES.1. Estimates of this sort are
   necessarily highly approximate, since they depend not only on the
   somewhat unpredictable pace of R&D successes but also future market
   conditions and measures taken to speed market penetration under
   whatever those conditions are; nonetheless, such "ballpark" estimates
   give at least a rough indication of the magnitude of the challenge the
   nation faces and size of the opportunity to address it with the
   stronger R&D program outlined here. ES-25 Potential impact on carbon
   dioxide emissions (customarily measured in tons of carbon contained in
   the emitted CO2) is clearly also a crucial element of a portfolio's
   leverage against the energy-related challenges of the next century.
   Figure ES.2 illustrates, in a highly stylized and schematic way, how
   the factors most germane to an analysis of leverage against CO2
   emissions can be portrayed in a single diagram: the length of time
   until a new technology is ready to begin penetrating the market, the
   cost of the R&D effort needed to get to that point, and the rate at
   which the technology could penetrate the market (reflected in the
   diagram as the rate of increase in avoided CO2 emissions) after that
   time. (With some modification such a diagram could also show the
   effect, on the potential for emissions avoidance, of the different
   sizes of the various energy-supply or end-use markets being
   penetrated.) 25 PNGV 20 Demand Light Trucks Heavy Trucks ay 15 Imports
   bl/D 10 MMB Biomass liquids Marginal Rsrce Oil R&D 5 Domestic Supply 0
   1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 Figure ES.1: Potential
   reduction of U.S. oil imports by selected advanced technologies.
   Historical data and baseline projections from Energy Information
   Administration (EIA). Vehicle efficiency improvements assume R&D
   completed by 2004 and commercial production is underway by 2010, with
   straight-line penetration to 100 percent of the market by 2030.
   Improvements entail roughly 60 percent reductions in fuel intensity for
   cars and light trucks, 40 percent for heavy trucks. Contributions from
   R&D to exploit marginal domestic resources are based on DOE
   projections. Biomass liquids estimate is based on an aggressive program
   to produce ethanol from cellulosic biomass. Many other technological
   possibilities are not shown. The Panel has not been able, in the time
   available for this study, to complete the sorts of analyses that would
   be necessary to specify the relevant market-entry points, associated
   research investments, and plausible penetration rates-and the
   uncertainty ranges associated with all of these-with any confidence.
   Figure ES.2 is based on very approximate understandings of needed
   research investments and market-entry points developed in the course of
   our study, and on crude guesses about penetration rates (which were
   uniform across the technologies shown, in the absence of the sort of
   analysis that would be required to do this in a differentiated way).
   What can be said in favor of this very rough and preliminary depiction
   of potential leverage is that (a) it ES-26 illustrates what we believe
   DOE should be doing in the way of portfolio analysis, with a much
   larger analytical effort behind it than they or we have mustered until
   now, and (b) the timing and magnitudes of the conceivably achievable
   avoided carbon emissions shown in the diagram are roughly consistent
   with what other major recent studies of the potential of new
   technologies for this purpose have found. Figure ES.2: Schematic
   portrayal of R&D portfolio analysis of carbon- reduction potential.
   This drawing depicts an approximate range of times when a technology
   might be available for commercial use-where the shaded wedges touch the
   time- axis; the potential carbon savings as the technology penetrates
   the market-depicted by the shaded wedges indicating a range of
   penetration rates; and the approximate cost of the R&D to develop these
   technologies to commercialization-depicted by the squares at the bottom
   of the drawing, which have areas proportional to the discounted present
   value of the R&D costs. The width of the wedges and shading in the
   boxes depict uncertainty in these estimates. Maximum slopes of
   penetration-rate wedges are based on 100 percent capture of the market
   for new units and specified turnover times for old units: 15 years for
   cars, 40 years for electric power plants, 80 years for residential
   buildings. For simplicity, carbon intensities of the various sectors
   are assumed to be frozen at 1995 levels. Funding estimates are for
   applied technology development only; they do not include fundamental
   science research. Funding for buildings includes commercial buildings,
   for which carbon savings are not shown. Large, long-term R&D programs
   assume international collaborations. With refinement and more nuanced
   analysis behind it, such an approach to illustrating the leverage of an
   R&D portfolio versus time and investment could be very informative.
   ES-27 Figure ES.2 shows mostly technologies that would not begin
   penetrating markets until after 2010. They offer large
   emissions-avoidance potential, but only well into the next century. (Of
   course, the point of increasing R&D investments in appropriately
   targeted areas is to move forward the date at which such technologies
   can begin penetrating their markets.) Options that could have an impact
   by 2010 are not shown here but have been separately examined by DOE in
   a recently released report; these earlier-impacting options necessarily
   depend largely on R&D that has already been done. Commercialization
   Considerations To achieve the sorts of impacts illustrated
   schematically in Figures ES.1 and ES.2 would require more than R&D in
   many cases.. New technologies face the chicken-and-egg problem of
   generally having high costs, and thus being limited to low market
   volumes, but needing large market volumes to drive costs down. Making
   this transition is difficult given the low costs of energy today and
   given that the public benefits of new energy technologies-notably
   environmental quality and national security-are generally not valued in
   the market. Industry-led, public-private collaborations in
   demonstration and commercialization of new energy technologies can be
   an appropriate way to address this difficulty in ways that ensure that
   R&D programs are appropriately targeted and market relevant and that
   the benefits of the public investment in R&D are realized in market
   penetration rates commensurate with the sum of the private and public
   benefits of such penetration. After consideration of the market
   circumstances and public benefits associated with the energy-technology
   options for which we have recommended increased R&D, the Panel
   recommends that the nation adopt a commercialization strategy in
   specific areas complementing its public investments in R&D. This
   strategy should be designed to reduce the prices of the targeted
   technologies to competitive levels, and it should be limited in cost
   and duration. The Panel does not make a recommendation as to the source
   of funds for such an initiative. We do believe, however, that such a
   commercialization effort should be designed to be very efficient in
   allocating funds to drive prices down, minimally disruptive of
   energy/financial systems, and temporary. International Aspects Markets
   for many new energy supply technologies will be very limited in the
   United States for the next decade or two due to slow growth in demand
   and the availability of low cost natural gas; most of the growth in
   world energy production and use and in carbon emissions will take place
   in developing countries. For the United States to maintain scientific,
   technological, and market leadership in these critical energy
   technologies, it will be essential for public R&D and demonstration and
   commercialization programs to broaden their scope to directly address
   international energy issues, including both collaborative R&D and
   market competition. This can provide us as well as our partners
   substantial economic and environmental benefits. The Panel recommends
   that the government and government/national-laboratory/industry
   /university consortia should engage strongly in international energy
   technology R&D and ES-28 demonstration and commercialization efforts to
   regain and/or maintain the scientific, technical, and market leadership
   of the United States in energy technology. This should include
   increased R&D-particularly in collaboration with developing countries,
   temporary support for D&C activities where appropriate, and responses
   to foreign export promotion activities where necessary. DOE Management
   of Its Energy R&D Programs The necessity of linking fundamental
   research with applied R&D and with demonstration and commercialization,
   the increasing complexity of R&D efforts, globalization of R&D and
   technology markets, heightened global market competition, and other
   evolving factors in the energy field have several important
   implications for energy R&D management. The complexity and technical
   demands of R&D require increased industry/national-lab/university peer
   review and technical oversight and direction of R&D programs. Linkages
   require improved coordination. Better communications can enable reduced
   administrative procedures and management overheads, and can improve
   coordination by pushing these responsibilities down to the operational
   level. Efficient use of resources requires careful establishment of R&D
   targets and timelines, and ongoing measurement of progress. Although
   DOE has been making some efforts in these areas and some programs are
   beginning to establish effective models that can be applied more
   broadly, in general these factors need to be better addressed in DOE
   energy R&D management. To address these management issues, and above
   all to increase the efficiency with which public dollars invested in
   energy R&D yield the results that the national interest requires, the
   Panel offers the following specific recommendations: * Overall
   responsibility for the DOE energy R&D portfolio should be assigned to a
   single person reporting directly to the Secretary of Energy; similarly,
   a single individual should be given the responsibility and authority
   for coordination of crosscutting programs between the
   applied-technology programs, reporting to the single person responsible
   for the overall R&D portfolio. *
   Industry/national-laboratory/university technical oversight committees
   should work with DOE to provide overall direction to energy R&D
   programs, with DOE facilitating and administering the process; * All
   R&D programs should undergo outside technical peer review every 1 to 2
   years, but interim internal process-oriented reviews should be reduced
   to a minimum. * DOE staff technical skills should be strengthened by
   training, targeted hiring, and by systematically rotating external
   technical (and managerial) staff through DOE as senior professionals
   with significant responsibilities for all aspects of program
   management. ES-29 * Lead laboratories should be named and laboratories
   should be treated by DOE as integrated entities, not as collections of
   projects independently controlled from DOE headquarters. *
   Industry/laboratory/university partnerships should conduct the energy
   R&D that is funded by DOE, in most cases. * The national laboratories
   should be encouraged to perform work for clients other than DOE, inside
   and outside the government, as appropriate, and processes for doing
   this should be streamlined. * DOE staff procedures for energy
   technology programs should be reviewed in detail, and staff levels
   adjusted accordingly. CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS AND ONE MORE
   RECOMMENDATION Funding and managing the energy R&D needed to help
   address the energy challenges and opportunities of the next century are
   tasks not for the Federal government alone but for all levels of
   government, for industry, for universities, for the nonprofit sector,
   and for a wide variety of kinds of partnerships among entities in these
   different categories. The Panel's charge was to review Federal energy
   R&D, but we have been attentive to the ways in which the role of the
   government relates to and interacts with the roles of the other
   sectors. Our recommendations aim to focus the government's resources on
   R&D where high potential payoffs for society as a whole justify bigger
   R&D investments than industry would be likely to make on the basis of
   its expected private returns, and where modest government investments
   can effectively complement, leverage, or catalyze work in the private
   sector. The funding increases we are proposing for Federal energy R&D,
   in order to better match the combined energy R&D portfolio of the
   public and private sectors to the energy-related challenges and
   opportunities facing the nation, appear quite large when expressed as
   percentage increases in some of the particular DOE programs that would
   be affected. But the increase in annual spending-amounting altogether
   to an extra billion dollars in 2003, compared to that in 1997, for R&D
   on all the applied energy-technology programs together-is equal to less
   than a fifth of one percent of the sum that U.S. firms and consumers
   spent on energy in 1996; and it would only bring the Department of
   Energy's spending on applied energy-technology R&D back to where it was
   in 1992, in real terms. The potential returns to society from this
   modest investment are very large. They can be measured in energy costs
   lower than they would otherwise be, oil imports smaller than they would
   otherwise be, air cleaner than it would otherwise be, more diverse and
   more cost-effective options for reducing the risk of global climate
   change than we would otherwise have, and much more. If this is such a
   good case, why hasn't
