http://www.governor.texas.gov/the_office/press/press_releases_files/011402_domestic.htm

   Press Releases


   Press Releases
   News and Information
   Archives
   Speeches
   Official Photos
   Recent Appointments
   Return to Home

     Press Release
     OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR
     Rick Perry
     January 14, 2002

     Contact: Kathy Walt or Gene Acuña
     512-463-1826, 512-463-2000 (Voice) 512-475-3165 (TDD)
     Post Office Box 12428
     Austin, Texas, 78711

Governor Rick Perry Announces $11.7 Million Domestic Preparedness Equipment
Grant For 95 Texas Cities And Counties

     AUSTIN - Governor Rick Perry today announced that 95 Texas cities
     and counties will receive a total of $11.7 million as part of the
     State Domestic Preparedness Equipment Program of the U.S. Department
     of Justice's Office for Domestic Preparedness. The DOJ program is
     designed to improve the response capability of emergency first
     responders in the event of terrorist use of a weapon of mass
     destruction.

     "Public safety and security is a top priority for Texas, which is
     why we are among the best prepared states in the nation for any type
     of emergency, be it natural or man-made," Perry said. "This federal
     assistance reinforces our preparedness on the local level by getting
     critical safety equipment into communities and counties across
     Texas."

     Perry noted the Texas Engineering Extension Service (TEEX), which
     serves as the state administrative agency for this program, sent
     assessment materials to the more than 1,400 county judges and
     incorporated municipality mayors statewide.

     This first round of awards recognizes 95 of the counties and
     municipalities that completed and submitted the assessment in
     November 2000. Awards were made by a steering committee of
     appropriate state agencies and local emergency management officials.
     To become eligible for this first round of federal funding,
     jurisdictions were required to complete an assessment for threat,
     vulnerability, capabilities, and needs.

     Each of the 95 Texas counties and incorporated cities will now have
     an opportunity to select equipment to address specific emergency
     needs. The emergency equipment categories include:
     * personal protective equipment - such as specialized, approved
       protective suits and breathing apparatus - to protect emergency
       responders who work in environments potentially contaminated by
       biological, nuclear, incendiary or chemical agents;
     * equipment to help detect and identify chemical, biological, nuclear
       and radiological hazards;
     * decontamination equipment, including emergency antidotes and
       medications for emergency responders and victims; and
     * communications equipment to enhance a coordinated and integrated
       response.

     Once all 95 jurisdictions submit their equipment selection
     information, TEEX will complete the state grant application process
     with the Department of Justice and will centrally procure the
     equipment. Equipment delivery is expected to begin in May.

     Cities who applied for and will be part of the State Domestic
     Preparedness Equipment Program include: Abilene, Amarillo,
     Arlington, Athens, Austin, Beaumont, Belton, Boerne, Brownsville,
     Brownwood, Bryan, Burleson, College Station, Colleyville, Corpus
     Christi, Corsicana, Dallas, Deer Park, Denton, Desoto, Duncanville,
     El Paso, Fort Worth, Freeport, Friendswood, Garland, Greenville,
     Haltom City, Highland Park, Houston, Hurst, Irving, Keller, Killeen,
     Kirby, Lakeside City (Archer County), Laredo, League City, Longview,
     Lubbock, Lufkin, Mansfield, Mercedes, Mesquite, Midland, Mineral
     Wells, Nacogdoches, New Braunfels, North Richland Hills, Odessa,
     Orange, Pampa, Pasadena, Plainview, Plano, San Angelo, San Antonio,
     Santa Fe, Sealy, Sherman, Sweetwater, Temple, The Colony, Victoria,
     Vidor, Weslaco, West Orange and Wichita Falls.

     Counties who applied for and will be part of the State Domestic
     Preparedness Equipment Program include: Austin, Bexar, Brazos,
     Cameron, Chambers, Comal, Dallas, Hale, Harris, Hidalgo, Hopkins,
     Howard, Kaufman, Lubbock, Midland, Milam, Orange, Potter, Randall,
     Rockwall, Tom Green, Travis, Walker, Wichita, Williamson, Wilson and
     Wise.

     Read the complete list of grant awards

                                    # # #

     Back to Main Press Release Page

                                 star banner


     Get Acrobat [spacer.png] State of Texas [spacer.png] Texas On Line
            [spacer.png] Access Adobe [spacer.png] Privacy Policy
   Best viewed with Internet Explorer 4.+ or above [spacer.png] ©Office of
    the Governor [spacer.png] The images on the web site are copyrighted
                         and may not be downloaded.
