http://courts.phila.gov/awards.html

      The Philadelphia Courts - First Judicial District of Pennsylvania

   The State Seal of Pennsylvania

   Municipal Phone Directory Contact Us Site Map SEARCH

   [Fast Access to_______________] _______________ Search

   :: HOME
   :: About the FJD
   :: Jury Service
   :: PA. Child Support
   :: Forms Documents are in Adobe PDF Format
   :: Employment
   :: Court Locations
   :: Hours of Operation
   :: Downloads Documents are in Adobe PDF Format
   :: Local Rules Documents are in Adobe PDF Format
   :: Reports Documents are in Adobe PDF Format
   :: Brochures Documents are in Adobe PDF Format
   :: RFP's Documents are in Adobe PDF Format
   :: Orders & Regulations
   :: What's New
   :: Wireless Applications
   :: Courts of the District
   :: FJD Departments
   :: Mental Health System
   :: The Courterly Documents are in Adobe PDF Format
   :: Law Links
   :: Site Awards

   Americans With Disabilities Act Information ADA Information

   For Documents in Acrobat PDF format you will have to have installed on
   your computer Adobe Acrobat Reader. This software is available for free
   at http://www.adobe.com
   Site Awards


                      StudyWeb Academic Excellent Award
                              October 29, 1999

   StudyWeb Academic Excellent Award -
   "The Philadelphia Courts - First Judicial District of Pennsylvania, has
   been selected as a featured site in StudyWeb as one of the best
   educational resources on the Web for students and teachers."

                      Allaire's HomeSite Featured Site
                                June 14, 1999

   The FJD web site is Allaire HomeSite Software's Featured Site -
   "The Philadelphia Courts Web site has been up and running since July 3,
   1997. Like many sites, it began as a static site with general
   information and was developed using a basic shareware HTML editor.
   Since then, the Courts' site has undergone many changes. The site you
   see today is the result of complementary technologies from Allaire and
   Oracle: HomeSite is the editor of choice to author all of the HTML,
   JavaScripts, navigational aids and site layout, and Oracle is used to
   deliver Civil Docket Access."

                   Médaille d'Or for Web Site Excellence
                                March 8, 1999

   The Médaille d'Or for Web Site Excellence -
   "The Philadelphia Courts This site, whose full title is "The
   Philadelphia Courts, First Judicial District of Pennsylvania" is one of
   a handful of court sites in the USA. It allows allows access to an
   estimated 1.7 million civil dockets via the Internet, as well as
   listing weekly court schedules, court orders and regulations, court
   notices, courthouse locations, information on jury duty and a great
   deal more. Excellent use of the Web. "

                           The Legal Intelligencer
                                March 3, 1999

   "The FJD as you know, is composed of the three courts which make up the
   Philadelphia County Court System: the Court of Common Pleas;Municipal
   Court; and Traffic Court. Information on all these courts can be found
   at this well organized Web site. However, the gem located within this
   Web site is the access to the civil dockets of the Court of Common
   Pleas...This site is truly one of the best in the U.S. for this type of
   local information."

   The Legal Intelligencer Net-Tip for March, 1999

                WPVI Cyber 6 Featured Site, February 2, 1999
                              February 2, 1999

   "The Philadelphia Courts, First Judicial District is WPVI's Cyber 6
   Featured Site for Tuesday, February 2, 1999."

                       Webmaster Award Winning Website

   The Philadelphia Courts is awarded the Webmaster Award. "The Webmaster
   Award is a special Internet award given only to those elite webmasters
   responsible for creating those websites that keep us up so late night
   after night. "

            Pennsylvania Destination of the Day - August 24, 1998
                               August 24, 1998

   "The Philadelphia Courts, First Judicial District is awarded the
   Pennsylvania Destination of the Day on August 24, 1998."
   Digital Government Award of Excellence - June 24, 1998
   June 24, 1998 "The Philadelphia Courts is setting the standard for
   useful judicial information. Their site currently lists weekly court
   schedules, court orders and regulations, court notices, courthouse
   locations, information on jury duty, forms, job opportunities, hours of
   operation, law links, as well as a complete listing of the various
   courts in the district."

              Web of Justice Award for Excellence - June, 1998
                                  June 1998

   "This site was very well thought out and developed. It provides weekly
   court schedules, Court Orders and Regulations, Court Notices,
   courthouse locations, information on jury duty, job opportunities,
   hours of operation, and additional law links, as well as a complete
   listing of the various courts in their district."

   spacer Copyright 1997-2002 First Judicial District of Pennsylvania. All
          Rights Reserved.
