http://www.swcgrl.ars.usda.gov/indextxt.htm

                           Home Page with Graphics



                             USDA SEAL ARS LOGO

               Southwestern Cotton Ginning Research Laboratory

                          Mesilla Park, New Mexico



                             History and Purpose

   As a result of the arid weather conditions of the Southwest, cotton
   grown here pose ginning problems not common to other more humid regions
   of the Cotton Belt. The Southwestern Cotton Ginning Research Laboratory
   in Mesilla Park, New Mexico is a research institution whose primary
   purpose is to study and find solutions to these ginning problems
   involving irrigated high-quality long and extra-long staple cotton.
   Established by the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture, we have served the needs
   of the ginning community of the Southwest since 1949.

                              Mission Statement

   The mission of the Cotton Ginning Research Laboratory is to develop
   improved methods for ginning cotton in the irrigated west. The mission
   falls within the technological objective of developing improved methods
   for ginning and cleaning agricultural fibers and preparing them for
   conversion into yarns, webs, and fabrics. Ginning is a process that
   cotton goes through after harvest but prior to marketing the resultant
   fiber and seed. There is acute need of ginning research to develop new
   cotton gin equipment subsystems, components, instrumentation, and
   control techniques for conditioning, ginning, and cleaning cottons that
   will preserve fiber quality and maximize spinnability. Ginning is one
   step in the total cotton system, and it interacts with earlier steps
   such as harvesting and later steps such as mill processing.

          General Information about the Cotton Ginning Research Lab.

                                  Saw-Gin Lab.

                                                Roller-Gin Lab.

             Notable Publications

                                 Ginning Process

                                                Personnel

                      Commercial Endorsement Disclaimer

                      USDA Nondiscrimination Statement



    Send comments and suggestions about content of SWCGRL's Home Page to

                              tlightfo@nmsu.edu

                         last updated April 3, 1998
