http://www.usna.usda.gov

                            US National Arboretum

   This script file displays the date and time

   Your browser is either not set/configured to read script files or
   cannot read them.

   This script creates drop-down menues for each of the 6 buttons. If you
   click on a button you will be taken to that section's list of options,
   equivalent to the drop-down menues.

                        Arboretum Information submenu
                        Events and Education submenu
                        Gardens and Education submenu
                         Research Activities submenu
                        Support the Arboretum submenu
                      Click Here to Search Our Site !!

                          DIRECT ARBORETUM SUPPORT
                                  Donations
                                Volunteering

                           PRIVATE SUPPORT GROUPS
                      Friends of the National Arboretum
                       NCA Federation of Garden Clubs
                         National Bonsai Foundation


   What's New !!    What's New at the Arboretum !!

                            New Gifts from Japan

   Animated images of saikei

   The U. S. National Arboretum received several valuable gifts from
   Japanese Bonsai master Tohsio Kawamoto. Now retired and living in
   Tokyo, Kawamoto developed a new style of bonsai known as saikei. Saikei
   is a series of smaller trees arranged with stones to create a
   miniature, natural appearing landscape. Kawamoto was an accomplished
   teacher and taught many people his techniques in his Tokyo studio. He
   also was invited to the United States several times to demonstrate his
   methods and lecture. Mr. Kawamoto presented six, hand made, full-size
   wire models of different types of bonsai that he made and used in his
   classes. Some are of individual trees showing pruning techniques while
   others include several trees to teach methods of proper arrangement of
   the trees. These original one-of-a- kind works of art are another
   important element in our attempt to fully document the history and
   development of bonsai and penjing.

   In addition, Kawamoto designed a new living saikei especially for the
   National Bonsai and Penjing Museum. It was made in Oregon by his prized
   student Mr. Furakawa and shipped to the museum. This specimen will be
   on display in the Japanese Pavilion when the National Bonsai and
   Penjing Museum re-opens in late spring 2002.

   What's New !! WHAT'S COMING

           Bonsai Museum Temporarily Closed!  Click here for more
   information.
           International Scholarly Symposium on Bonsai and Viewing Stones
   has been
           scheduled for May 17-19, 2002. Click here for brochure and
   registration form.
           U.S. National Arboretum publications available. Click here for
   our Publications page.


   EDUCATION

   image of the National Herb Garden intern Deadline Extended for The
   National Herb Garden and IPM Internships    New deadline: February 20,
   2002

   If you are looking for the opportunity to work with plants and the
   insects and diseases that attack them, to learn how to teach landscape
   IPM theories and techniques to professionals and home gardeners, and to
   practice scouting methods both outdoors and in the greenhouse, then an
   internship with the arboretums Integrated Pest Management team is the
   ideal job for you. (Click here to read more about the IPM Internship)

   image of the Integrated Pest Management intern But maybe your
   preference is working in the largest designed herb garden in the
   world--in
   The National Herb Garden
   you will assist in all aspects of the gardens care, including
   propagation, planting, watering, and record keeping. (Click here to
   read more about The National Herb Garden Internship)

   We have 13 other internships, too. Check them out on our internship
   page.


   small icon of a yellow plant to represent the calendar of evetns page
   Calendar of Events

   HORTICULTURE

   image of 'Pinus strobus' Golden Pines Brighten Winter's Dull Days

   Lothlorien, Elven homeland in J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, is a
   glowing forest of golden- leaved trees that lift the spirit in winter.
   A special group of dwarf pines with bright yellow needles growing in
   the Gotelli Collection of Dwarf and Slow-Growing Conifers brightens the
   seemingly endless gray days of winter here at the U.S. National
   Arboretum in the same manner.

   image of 'Pinus mugo' Many pines have been selected solely for their
   winter color characteristics. They are green throughout most of the
   growing season, but cold temperatures bring a magical transformation to
   soft yellow and golden hues during the coldest months of the year.
   Before new growth starts in spring, the golden color gradually fades
   back to green. Click here for the full article.

          small icon of white, green and red flowers used to represent the
                                 Horticultre Hot Spots page Hort Hot Spots

   RESEARCH Composite picture of rose research highlighted in ARS Research
   Magazine article

   A few of the research projects performed at the U.S. National Arboretum
   were recently highlighted in USDA's Agricultural Research
   magazine.  Here's an excerpt from the article -  "For almost 75 years,
   the U.S. National Arboretum's Floral and Nursery Plants Research Unit
   (FNPRU) has been a leader in the development of new and improved floral
   and nursery products.  FNPRU's research activities have helped spur the
   burgeoning floral and nursery crops industries in myriad ways.  From
   their germplasm improvement, taxonomy studies, and development of
   virus- or pest-resistant plants to the creation of plant pathogen
   detection methods and genetic transformation technologies, the research
   unit's scientists continue to engage some of the horticulture
   industry's most enduring challenges".   Click here for the complete
   web-version reprint of the September 2001 article.

   small icon of azaleas used to represent the plant introductions and
   award winners page Plant Introductions and Award Winners

    Arboretum Information || Events & Education || Gardens & Horticulture
                           || Research Activities
       Support the Arboretum || New Plant Introductions || USDA Plant
                       Hardiness Zone Map || Comments
                               Search Our Site

     Government System Usage Policy || USDA Nondiscrimination Statement
            Privacy and Security Policy || Endorsement Disclaimer

              The U.S. National Arboretum is a division of the
                   Beltsville Agricultural Research Center
                    of the Agricultural Research Service
                    of the U.S. Department of Agriculture

                                USDA-ARS Logo

   Last Updated January 18, 2002
   URL= http://www.usna.usda.gov
