http://www.ncwatershed.ca.gov


   Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                    What's New!
                    Draft Manual
                    Manual Review Process
                    NCWAP PPT Slideshow
                    Budget Change Proposal
                    Klamath Resource Info. System (KRIS)



                                 Participants



          California Resources Agency
          Department of Water Resources
          Department of Fish & Game
          Department of Forestry and Fire Protection
          Department of Conservation, Division of Mines and Geology
          Institute for Fisheries Resources
          North Coast Water Quality Control Board



           [index11.jpg]
           North Coast
           Watershed Assessment
           Program

              Photograph: S.   Fork Eel River
              © M.   Hoshovsky




                                               __________  search
                                                (*) My CA

   About the Program

          In 1999, the California Resources Agency and the California
   Environmental Protection Agency began developing an interagency
   watershed assessment program for California's North Coast.   The
   purpose of the program is  to develop consistent, scientifically
   credible information to guide landowners, agencies, watershed groups,
   and other stakeholders in their efforts to improve watershed and
   fisheries conditions.

          The agencies brought together the Department of Fish and Game
   (DFG), Forestry and Fire Protection (CDF), Conservations Division of
   Mines and Geology (DMG), Water Resources (DWR), and the North Coast
   Water Quality Control Board (NCWQCB) to identify the appropriate role
   and objectives of a state assessment program.   The resulting North
   Coast Watershed Assessment Program, or NCWAP, is designed to meet four
   goals:

   Develop baseline information about watershed conditions.

   Guide watershed restoration programs.

   Guide cooperative interagency, non-profit, and private sector
   approaches to protect the best through stewardship, easement, and other
   incentive programs.

   Better implement laws requiring watershed assessments such as Forest
   Practices, Clean Water and Porter-Cologne Acts, Lake or Streambed
   Alteration Agreement, and others.

       The program provides a process for collecting and analyzing
   information to answer a set of critical questions designed to
   characterize current and past watershed conditions.   It will cover
   approximately 6.5 million acres of private and state lands within the
   12 million acre North Coast Hydrologic Region (see map).  Information
   will be used to guide watershed management and restoration planning,
   restoration and recovery planning for anadromous fisheries, and
   implementation of watershed protection policies and regulations.
   NCWAP will not produce prescriptions, design projects, analyze
   cumulative effects of proposed projects, perform risk management, or
   recommend policy development or regulations.   It will, however,
   provide a consistent, interdisciplinary body of valuable information
   for a variety of tasks, including TMDL development, cumulative
   watershed effects analysis, Habitat Conservation Plans and restoration
   strategies, as well as a foundation for voluntary stewardship and
   implementation of other existing regulations.
      Map of the California North Coast watershed.

    Benefits to Landowners

          The North Coast Watershed Assessment Program will support
   watershed protection and planning at the project level in several
   ways.   It will provide information that small landowners could not
   easily obtain, such as landslide, sediment, and Timber Harvest Plan
   (THP) maps for all ownerships within a watershed.   These products,
   when used in conjunction with site specific assessments by the
   landowner, will improve his or her ability to design projects that
   mitigate potential watershed impacts and address limiting factors to
   salmonid recovery.   We will also work with interested landowners to
   demonstrate the use of GIS tools and predictive models for project
   planning and cumulative effects analysis.

          The program includes two DFG positions to identify immediate
   restoration opportunities and develop projects with interested
   landowners.   NCWAP results will also be shared with State Water
   Resources Control Board and DFG grant programs (e.g. Proposition 13,
   319 Clean Water Act, SB 271 Fisheries Restoration, and Coastal Salmon
   Recovery Programs).   Project proposals that reflect NCWAP findings and
   restoration priorities will have improved chances of getting funded.
   Assessments can also be used for developing cooperative watershed level
   salmon recovery plans that would benefit multiple landowners.

    Assessment Questions

         The North Coast Watershed Assessment Program is designed to
   answer the following critical questions for each river basin:


     What are the relationships between land use history and current
     vegetation and watershed disturbance?


     What is the spatial and temporal distribution of sediment delivery to
     streams from different sources and what is the relative importance of
     each source?


     What are the effects of stream, spring, and groundwater uses on water
     quality and quantity?


     What is the current role of large woody debris in forming fish habitat
     and determining channel morphology and sediment storage?


     What are the current salmonid habitat conditions, and how do they
     compare to desired conditions (life history requirements and Basin Plan
     objectives)?


     What are the sizes, distributions, and relative health of salmon
     populations in the watershed?


     Do current aquatic community populations and diversity reflect assessed
     watershed and water quality conditions?

          These questions are similar to those guiding other watershed
   assessment programs.   There are already well established protocols to
   measure many parameters for  answering these questions which NCWAP will
   use whenever possible.   The program will develop a manual of our
   methods that references other published sources.   NCWAP will strive to
   answer assessment questions at scales ranging from the planning
   watershed up to basin level, as appropriate, but will need to adapt
   objectives, methods, and level of assessment based on individual basin
   characteristics, stakeholder input, existing data, and landowner
   cooperation for fieldwork.

                               [flowchart.gif]

    Assessment Products

          In responding to assessment questions, the North Coast Watershed
   Assessment Program will provide data sets and databases, maps and GIS
   data, topical reports, and an overall summary with recommendations for
   every basin.   Products will include photos and maps of current land
   use, landslide locations and landslide risk, sediment distribution in
   streams, and 60 years of timber harvest history.   NCWAP will compile
   data on instream channel and riparian conditions, fish populations, and
   water quality, and develop new data as feasible.   It will analyze
   sediment transport and the effects of land use history on vegetation
   change, watershed disturbance and instream habitat.   The Department of
   Fish and Game will then use all this information to analyze limiting
   factors for salmonid protection and habitat restoration.

          The summary report for each basin will integrate all information
   to provide an overview of watershed function and condition.   This
   report will discuss the linkages among land use, natural processes, and
   limiting factors, priorities for restoration, key data gaps and
   monitoring needs, recommendations for cumulative effects analyses, and
   general management recommendations.

          The North Coast Watershed Assessment Program will also work with
   local stakeholders to use models for predicting road runoff, riparian
   vegetation and woody debris recruitment, and other GIS tools.   Data,
   maps, reports, and findings will be available free on CD from the
   Institute for Fisheries Resources by using the Klamath Resources
   Information System (KRIS) tool and website, and online through the
   California Environmental Resources Evaluation System (CERES).

    Public Involvement

          The North Coast Watershed Assessment Program is designed to be
   flexible.   The departments recognize that many basins have significant
   data collection efforts underway. Therefore, the assessment team for
   each basin will work with landowners, local agencies, watershed groups,
   restorationists, and other stakeholders to refine assessment objectives
   and methods based on the unique characteristics of that watershed.   We
   will specifically seek input on watershed problems and concerns,
   existing assessments, data and studies, and opportunities to conduct
   fieldwork on private lands.   Our initial scoping efforts in the
   Gualala River and Redwood Creek basins are developing strategies for
   coordinated property access requests, data and GIS protocol
   development, communication, coordination with local assessments and
   support for local monitoring objectives.

          NCWAP has also contracted for independent scientific peer review
   and public review of our methods.   The program will incorporate
   changes into our manual in response to these processes as feasible, and
   will document all comments.   The Governors budget for next year
   includes funds for ongoing peer review of assessment products from each
   basin.

    Benefits of Increased Interagency Coordination

          The North Coast Watershed Assessment Program will provide a
   consistent set of methods, data, and interpretation for understanding
   watershed condition and protection needs that will be used by
   participating agencies and others.   NCWAP is coordinating with DFGs
   Basin Planners and with participating agencies THP review staffs.
   Agencies are also integrating new programs, such as NCWQCBs Surface
   Water Ambient Monitoring Program and DFG development of restoration
   project monitoring protocols, into NCWAP program planning.   These
   coordination efforts will benefit both stakeholders and agencies by
   enhancing interagency collaboration and reducing conflicts, improving
   confidence in agency decision making, and expediting permit review and
   grant processes.

         The State expects information about limiting factors, habitat
   conditions, and restoration priorities to be incorporated into National
   Marine Fisheries Services (NMFS) recovery planning for listed
   salmonids, including recognition of restoration activities identified
   in or precipitated by the assessment process.   The assessments should
   also strengthen the scientific foundation for TMDL (Total Maximum Daily
   Load) development and implementation.

         NCWAP has begun working with the Forest Service and BLM to
   explore how we can integrate our assessment with their efforts in mixed
   ownership watersheds.   We will also share data with regional efforts
   by local government such as the Five Northern County Salmon
   Conservation Planning program.

    Program Resources and Next Steps

          The North Coast Watershed Program will provide over 50 new staff
   to the five participating departments.   Every basin team will have at
   least six members, including two or more biologists and geologists and
   at least one forester and water quality or environmental specialist.
   There will be a lead contact person for each basin to answer questions,
   communicate progress, and coordinate team member activities as needed
   with residents and stakeholders.

          It will take seven years to complete these baseline
   assessments.   Program success will ultimately depend on the
   participation and input of stakeholders, program flexibility, and the
   development of credible, useful products for watershed planning and
   adaptive management.   The State will also explore options for filling
   critical data gaps or supporting focused monitoring efforts.   We look
   forward to working with all North Coast stakeholders to implement this
   program so that we can improve our ability to manage, protect and
   restore our watersheds.

          For more information call Cathy Bleier at (916) 653-6598.


                             Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California.   Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
