http://halfdome.arc.nasa.gov

                         Aeromechanics Branch banner

   NFAC Photo The Aeromechanics Branch of the Army/NASA Rotorcraft
   Division is responsible for aeromechanics research activities that
   directly support the Department of Defense and the U.S. rotorcraft
   industry. Branch programs address all aspects of the rotorcraft which
   directly influence the vehicle's performance, structural, and dynamic
   response, external acoustics, vibration, and aeroelastic stability. The
   programs are both theoretical and experimental in nature.

   Advanced computational methodology research using computational fluid
   dynamics and multidisciplinary comprehensive analyses seeks to
   understand the complete rotorcraft's operating environment and to
   develop analytical models to predict rotorcraft aerodynamic,
   aeroacoustic, and dynamic behavior. Experimental research seeks to
   obtain accurate data to validate these analyses, investigate phenomena
   currently beyond predictive capability, and to achieve rapid solutions
   to flight vehicle problems. Databases from the flight and wind tunnel
   experimental programs are validated, documented and maintained for the
   benefit of the U.S. rotorcraft technology base.

   The Branch directly supports the U.S. Army Team RDEC effort. The Branch
   work also includes research and technology base activity and system
   technology research. A significant portion of the Branch's efforts are
   in support of NASA's national programs and, in particular, the NASA
   Short Haul (Civil Tiltrotor) program of the Advanced Subsonic
   Technology program.

                       line image to separate content

                          WEB SITE VIEWING OPTIONS

                       Continue Viewing This Web Site

           | Without Frame Enhancements | With Frame Enhancements

                       line image to separate content

   NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field CA 94035-1000, (650) 604-5000

   URL: http://rotorcraft.arc.nasa.gov/
   This Website Maintained By: Randall L. Peterson.
   Responsible NASA Official: Dr. William Warmbrodt (Chief)
   Last Modified: October 22, 2001 09:00:00 PST

   Privacy Statement
   Ames Research Center Homepage
   NASA Homepage
