http://w3.antd.nist.gov

   [USEMAP:antdbanner760.gif]


   The Advanced Network Technologies Division (ANTD), as part of NIST 's
   Information Technology Laboratory , serves to provide the Networking
   industry with the best in test and measurement research.


   horizontal rule
   blue bullet What ANTD does
   blue bullet Working with ANTD
   blue bullet Organization
   blue bullet Staff Directory

   blue bullet Publications
   blue bullet Tools for Industry
   blue bullet Standards Contributions
   blue bullet External Relationships
   Small horizontal rule



                            Search ITL Web space
                     ______________________   Go   Help


   thin vertical line

                   Horizontal rule Current Research Areas

           plum colored bullet Networking for Pervasive Computing:
      Assist IEEE 802.15 standards group on the development of protocol
    specifications and investigate co-existance issues in the 2.4 GHz ISM
     band. Colaborate with IT industry on various dynamic discovery and
                          configuration protocols.
                plum colored bullet Wireless Ad Hoc Networks
   Provide metrics and related models to evaluate MANET routing protocols;
     develop protocols to transmit video in sensor networks at 10 Kbps.
            plum colored bullet Agile Switching Infrastructures:
   Help IETF and OIF to develop technical specifications for an integrated
           control plane combining optical and Internet switching
           plum colored bullet Internet Infrastructure Protection:
     Work with NSA, DARPA, and IETF to encourage deployment of security
   technologies to protect the domain name system and the Internet routing
                                technologies
           plum colored bullet Internet Telephony / Voice over IP:
    Provide WDM deployment industry with an integrated modeling platform
      that can be used to evaluate multi-layer restoration and recovery
                                 algorithms.
              plum colored bullet Quantum Information Networks:
   Show some initial applications of quantum networks to super-secure key
     distribution protocols integrated into IPsec, and help PL deploy an
                initial point-to-point quantum optical link.
              plum colored bullet Active Networks Measurement:
   Provide researchers with a basis to describe the CPU usage requirements
    of mobile code; develop active approaches to network measurement and
                                   control
             plum colored bullet 3G Wireless Cellular Telephony:
     Ensure industry customers can use our model of a specific IMT-2000
                            technology: cdma2000.

                                horizontal rule
                      Check out our Past Research Areas

   thin vertical line
   Horizontal rule

   ANTD Leads Development of Wireless Personal Area Networks Standards

   A team of ANTD researchers have made significant contributions to
   industry's on-going efforts to standardize WPAN technology in the IEEE
   802.15 Specification. Specific contributions of the ITL researchers
   include:
     * Modeling and validation of the Bluetooth protocol specifications.
     * Assessment of interference among wireless devices operating in the
       2.4 GHz band.
     * Development and evaluation of coexistence mechanisms for wireless
       devices sharing the same spectrum.

       News Archive


   Back arrow forward arrow
   Horizontal rule
   Back to NIST Home

           Disclaimer Notice & Privacy Statement | Security Notice
           Send comments or suggestions to webmaster@antd.nist.gov
        NISTis an Agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
                               Administration


                           Date Created: May 2001
                         Created by: Stan Morehouse
                       Last updated: September 6, 2001
