http://adopt-a-highway.dot.ca.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




               Caltrans Home
               Brochure on Getting Started
               Participant Safety Requirements
               Contact Your Local Adopt-A-Highway Coordinator
               Permit Application
               Our Honored Volunteers
               Quarterly Safety Bulletin for Volunteers
               Bag It, Move It or Leave It? Handout.
               Sign Restrictions & Controls

                          [CT_cccccc_noshadow.gif]


   Illustration For This Section WIDTH="174" HEIGHT="130"

   The Caltrans Adopt-A-Highway Program provides an avenue for
   individuals, organizations, or businesses to help maintain sections of
   roadside within California’s State Highway System.

         __________ search
   (*)  My CA   ( )   This Site
   Your Image Description LINK WIDTH="179" HEIGHT="76"
   Caltrans Adopt-A-Highway Program"

   Caltrans > Division of Maintenance > Adopt-A-Highway > This Page

   The Adopt-A-Highway Program

   The Adopt-A-Highway program, which began in 1989, has been one of the
   truly successful government-volunteer partnerships of our time. Since
   1989 more than 120,000 Californians from over 6,000 groups have cleaned
   6,000 miles of California roadsides. In the process, the
   Adopt-A-Highway volunteers have collected a staggering 540,000 cubic
   yards of trash, enough litter to fill a line of dump trucks, bumper to
   bumper, from San Francisco to San Luis Obispo. The program's value can
   be measured not only in financial savings, but in the dedicated hours
   that thousands of Californians have donated to keep the Golden State
   beautiful for visitors and residents alike.

   Participation can include one or more of the following activities.
   • Removing litter on a two-mile stretch of roadside (frequency varies
   with location).
   • Planting and establishing five acres of seedling trees and/or shrubs
   according to an approved plan.
   • Planting and establishing three acres of wildflowers according to an
   approved plan.
   • Planting and establishing a small area of wildflowers, called a
   “spot” wildflower adoption, according to an approved plan. (Note: Spot
   wildflower adopters do not qualify for Adopt-A-Highway signs.)
   • Removing graffiti as needed from one or more highway structures.
   • Controlling weeds on five acres of right-of-way according to an
   approved plan.

   Volunteer adopters collect over 54,000 cubic yards of litter from over
   3,600 locations on State highways each year. Graffiti is cleaned from
   more than 270 sound walls and structures, and trees and wildflowers
   have been planted on more than 350 sites. Over 60,000 individuals and
   groups have participated in the Caltrans Adopt-A-Highway program since
   its inception.

   Caltrans provides Adopt-A-Highway volunteers with appropriate permits,
   litter bags, safety gear and safety training, at no cost. Adopters are
   recognized for their contribution by the placement of a roadside sign.
   The Adopt-A-Highway Program is not a forum for advertising or public
   discourse.

                           Contact Adopt-A-Highway

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
