http://web.icva.gov


   Skip to main content.

    Sign in front of the Iowa City VA Medical Center showing it's address
                as 601 Highway 6 West, Iowa City, Iowa, 52246

           Iowa City VA Medical Center Home Page
                         What's New
                          VA Nurse
           Online Application for Health Benefits
           About the Iowa City VA Medical Center
                     Public Affairs and
   Special Events
                  Employment Opportunities
                    Of Special Interest
                Consumer Health Information
               Partnership with the Community
                          Contacts
                      Staff Resources

                 Seal of the Department of Veterans Affairs

   [skip navigation]


   Iowa City VA Medical Center Banner
   Main Page Content

The Iowa City VA Medical Center

   Business Hours:  8 a.m. to 4 p.m.
   Visiting Hours:  Wards:  11 a.m. to 8 p.m. - Intensive Care Unit (9
   a.m. to 9 p.m.)
   Phone:  (319) 338-0581
   Toll-Free (Iowa): 1-800-637-0128
   Toll-Free (Illinois): 1-800-346-1843

   The Iowa City Veterans Affairs Medical Center provides a broad spectrum
   of medical, surgical, and rehabilitative care to its customers.  Our
   goal is to share information about these benefits and services to make
   it as easy as possible for you to receive the care you need.
     * What's New
       Read about what is new at the Iowa City VA Medical Center and its
       community-based outpatient clinics.

     * VA Nurse
       If you need health care advice you can reach a VA Nurse 24 hours a
       day, 7 days a week at 1-866-NURSE VA (1-866-687-7382).

     * Online Application for Health Benefits
       For your convenience, VHA provides this online Form 10-10EZ:
       Application for Health Benefits.  Submit your application
       electronically and expedite your enrollment.

     * About the Iowa City VA Medical Center
       Find out about our facilities, services, programs, and employment
       opportunities.

     * Public Affairs and Special Events
       Read about the special events hosted by the Iowa City VA Medical
       Center and the most recent press releases.

     * Employment Opportunities
       Check to see what types of employment opportunities are available
       at the Iowa City VA Medical Center.

     * Of Special Interest
       Links to items of special interest to the veteran and their family.

     * Consumer Health Information
       Links to a variety of web sites containing health and wellness
       information.

     * In Partnership with the Community
       Helpful information on what is going on in the community and public
       facilities in the surrounding area.

     * Contacts
       Have a question?  This is the place.

     * Staff Resources
       Resources for use by Iowa City VA Medical Staff when they are away
       from the facility.

   This page was last updated on:  Wednesday, November 28, 2001 at 3:57:03
   PM

     VA Home Page / VISN 14 / Search / Site Map  / Facilities Locator /
      Privacy & Security Statement / Disclaimer / FOIA / Contact the VA

   Please send your comments on this page to the Iowa City VA Medical
   Center Webmaster.  Before you email the Iowa City VA Medical Center,
   please read the VA Privacy Policy on Information Collected from E-mails
   and Web Forms.
   Return to top of page

                     This page is Section 508 compliant.
