http://www.tourism.wa.gov/Region.asp?region=1

   Washington State
                    A Little Trip to the Extraordinary
   North Cascades The Coast Olympic and Kitsap Peninsula Wine Country The
   Palouse
   Ponderosa Pine Country The Islands Volcano Country Columbia River
   Plateau Seattle
   Famous Places
   Outdoor Activities
   Cultural Attractions
   Lodging Associations
   Cities
   Visitor Information
   Festivals & Events
   Home Site Map Contact Us __________________
   Search

   The North Cascade Range is a towering mass of granite spires and
   pre-historic glaciers. Amid these jagged peaks, you can walk in the
   quiet of ancient forests, swim in seas of wildflower and peer into the
   glass of alpine lakes. This is sacred country for casual hikers and
   extreme mountaineers alike. The mountains themselves, however,
   represent only one part of the beautiful North Cascades region.

   The Cascade Loop is a 400-mile self-guided driving tour from the waters
   of Puget Sound, across the Cascade Mountains to the vast, sun-baked
   orchards of the Columbia River Plateau. Take a day-trip or travel the
   entire Loop, from the beach to a re-created Bavarian mountain village;
   from tulip fields to ancient forests to the steppes of the high desert.

   Beside the ranges western slopes lies the lush Skagit Valley, where
   hundreds of bald eagles stop to rest together each winter and feed on
   exhausted salmon. The Skagit Valley is also home to the worlds largest
   tulip fields, where, in the summer, miles of color paint the earth and
   can be viewed from bike, car or small plane. Even the waters of Puget
   Sound are just an hours drive from the mountain shoulders of North
   Cascades National Park.

   You can stay in a lively coastal town and be just a short drive from
   the snow-clad volcano, Mount Baker. Skiers and snowboarders love this
   mountain for its diverse terrain, unspoiled by crowds. Hikers and
   climbers find their own rewards amid old-growth stands of fir and
   cedar, and on the sprawling glaciers toward the summit (10,778 feet),
   the highest point in the entire North Cascades region.

   The only road through North Cascades National Park is Highway 20 over
   Washington Pass. It is no doubt one of the most scenic roads in the
   world. In the winter, the road closes near the pass and cross-country
   skiers take over this magical route through a surreal landscape of
   monumental cathedrals. In summer, the snow melts and jewel-like, high
   alpine lakes, set amid soaring pinnacles of rock, become accessible to
   nature seekers.

   To the east lies the drier, sunnier Methow Valley, a cross-country
   skiing paradise, with countless miles of pristine trails and quaint
   houses to rent. A little farther east, the vast hills and glades of the
   Okanogan National Forest tempt skiers in the winter and outdoor
   explorers in the warmer months. Grizzlies, wolves and elk make their
   homes in the thick stands of ponderosa pine that cover peaks up to
   8,000 feet high. The Methow and Okanogan have some of the states
   greatest panoramas, looking back on sunsets over jagged peaks that seem
   to cut the western sky in half.

   Lake Chelan National Recreation Area, nestled in the high foothills of
   the southeastern part of the North Cascades region, includes the states
   largest lake. Resorts give way to rolling orchards, then steep
   mountains lining the clean, cobalt blue depths of Lake Chelan. You can
   even journey three hours up-lake to a town accessible only by water or
   an arduous mountain trek.

   No matter where you travel in the North Cascades region, you can expect
   beautiful scenery and genuine people. Its easy to imagine the thrill of
   explorers seeing this magnificent country for the first time. Stop in
   small towns or at one of the many roadside fruit stands along your
   route to taste the history and hospitality of the area. Eavesdrop on
   conversations in a local café while you eat the homemade pie.
   [spacer.gif]

   Not all cities in this region are shown above. For a complete list of
   all cities in this region, along with a city locator map, please click
   on the Cities page for each region.
   About Washington State Order Travel Information Transportation
   Press Room Survey Weather Kids

   Copyright 2000
