http://cox.house.gov/press/bio/bio.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit
   Photo Gallery

                               [redcross.gif]
   The latest information on the War on Terrorism.
     __________________________________________________________________

                          U.S. Rep. Christopher Cox

                                of California
     __________________________________________________________________

       Christopher Cox is the highest ranking Californian in Congress, and
   the only Californian in the elected majority leadership of the House or
   Senate.  As Chairman of the House Policy Committee, elected by the full
   majority Conference in the House for four consecutive terms, he is the
   fourth-ranking member of the leadership behind the Speaker.

       Among Chairman Cox's other responsibilities are:

   [meetpresscrop.jpg]
     * House Leadership Steering Committee (makes Committee assignments in
       the House)
     * Member, Committee on Energy and Commerce
     * Member, Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications
     * Member, Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Air Quality
     * Member, Committee on Financial Services

   Click here for Rep. Cox's short-form biography.

   Click here for press biographies about Rep. Cox.

       On April 24, 2001, Rep. Cox released the unanimous and bipartisan
   Report of the Study Group on Enhancing Multilateral Export Controls.
   The Study Group, co-chaired by Senator Michael B. Enzi (R-WY), Senator
   Jeff Bingaman (D-NM), and Congressman Howard L. Berman (D-CA), was
   established by law in the 2000 Defense Appropriations Act. Its members
   included leaders from the U.S. Senate, U.S. House, the Bush and Clinton
   administrations, industry, and academia. The Study Group proposes a
   sweeping reform of export controls, including the establishment of
   mutually agreed-upon international controls to replace the current weak
   and ineffective system in which each country goes it alone.  As
   chairman of the Speaker's Advisory Group on Russia during the second
   session of the 106th Congress, Rep. Cox presided over a high-level
   group of House leaders including the Chairmen of six House committees:
   Armed Services, Appropriations, Banking, Intelligence, International
   Relations, and the Joint Economic Committee.  Chairman Cox issued a
   209-page report on U.S.-Russia relations on September 20, 2000.

       In the 105th Congress, Rep. Cox served as chairman of the Select
   Committee on U.S. National Security and Military/Commercial Concerns
   with the Peoples Republic of China, which was created by a 409-10 vote
   of the House on June 18, 1998.  The bipartisan Select Committee
   unanimously approved its report December 30, 1998, prompting major
   legislative and administrative action.  The unclassified version of the
   report was issued in three volumes in May 1999.  Since then, 28 of the
   Select Committee's recommendations have been enacted, including the
   creation of a new National Nuclear Security Administration to take over
   the nuclear weapons security responsibilities of the Department of
   Energy.

       Since leaving President Reagan's White House staff to begin his
   career in Congress, Christopher Cox has established himself as a
   leading advocate of economic growth through lower taxes, free
   enterprise, and limited government.  In the past few years, he has seen
   more than a dozen of his bills enacted into law, including the Internet
   Tax Freedom Act--which provides for the current moratorium on multiple
   and discriminatory taxes on the Internet--and the Securities Litigation
   Reform Act, the only bill that became law over President Clinton's
   veto.

       Rep. Cox's expertise and his thoughtful approach to legislation
   have earned him bipartisan support outside of Congress as well.  In
   1994, President Clinton appointed him to the Bipartisan Commission on
   Entitlement and Tax Reform.  The Los Angeles Times, in a rare
   endorsement of a Republican, called him "an intelligent spokesman for
   fiscal responsibility and an expert on foreign affairs."  George Will,
   writing in Newsweek, praised Cox's efforts to bring honesty to the
   federal budget process. And the Wall Street Journal featured him as a
   key leader in a page-one profile on the historic opening day of the
   104th Congress.

       Rep. Cox has won numerous awards from grassroots organizations.
   Each year since he was first elected, he has earned the prestigious
   "Golden Bulldog Award" from the Watchdogs of the Treasury for his
   consistent votes to stop runaway government spending.  He has regularly
   been named a "Hero to the Taxpayer" by the 500,000-member grassroots
   lobbying group Citizens Against Government Waste.  In addition, the
   National Taxpayers Union has consistently honored him with the
   "Taxpayer's Friend Award" for his work to promote free enterprise and
   limit the scope of government; the National Federation of Independent
   Business has each year given him the "Friend of Small Business" Award;
   and the citizen watchdog group Consumer Alert has twice presented him
   with their "Friend of the Consumer" Award.

       Southern California voters have always sent Christopher Cox to the
   U.S. House of Representatives with more than 65 percent of the popular
   vote.  In 1996, his re-election came with the largest margin of victory
   of all California Republicans.  In the 1994 Republican sweep, he won
   with 72 percent and the largest popular vote of all California's 52
   Congressional races.

   Domestic Policy Priorities

       After waging the fight to repeal the Death Tax for nearly a decade,
   Rep. Cox's Death Tax repeal legislation was signed into law by
   President George W. Bush on June 7, 2001.  He had introduced the first
   major Death Tax repeal legislation in 1993 with zero cosponsors. No
   bill to repeal the Death Tax had ever been seriously considered in the
   entire 20th Century. But by 1998, Rep. Cox had more than 200 cosponsors
   of his legislation, including the entire GOP leadership.  The 10-year
   phaseout signed into law by President Bush is a compromise of his
   legislation, which would have immediately repealed the tax.

       Even before entering Congress, as a member of President Reagans
   White House staff, Rep. Cox was responsible for drafting a
   comprehensive overhaul of the badly broken federal budget-making
   system.  After his election to Congress, he introduced it as the Budget
   Process Reform Act, with the bipartisan sponsorship of over 200 of his
   colleagues.  It would require a simplified, binding budget in the form
   of a law before Congress could spend taxpayers' money.  In May 2000,
   the bill received its first-ever floor vote--falling short of the
   necessary 218 votes for House passage, but winning Gov. George W.
   Bush's attention in the process.  In June 2000, Gov. Bush made budget
   process reform a plank in his platform.

       Rep. Cox has been at the forefront of protecting the Internet from
   destructive taxation and regulation.  In the 105th Congress, Rep. Cox
   passed the Internet Tax Freedom Act, which prevents state and local
   taxes on the Internet, and establishes a process to make the Internet a
   global tax-free zone.  His Internet Freedom and Family Empowerment Act,
   which passed the House on a 420-4 vote in 1996, prohibited FCC
   regulation of the Internet.  It also encouraged the development of
   commercial software to permit the screening of objectionable material
   on the Internet.

       Rep. Cox authored the successful initiative to eliminate the
   Interstate Commerce Commission, the oldest (and most outdated)
   regulatory agency in Washington.

       Another Cox landmark is the long-sought privatization of the
   National Helium Reserve, a notoriously wasteful government program that
   had long since outlived its purpose (fielding a blimp fleet in World
   War I).  Thanks to Rep. Cox's law, its antiquated plant and facilities
   near Amarillo, Texas, were put on the block in late 1998, and the
   federal government transferred title to 100 years' worth of federal
   helium needs.

       Two other Cox bills were recently signed into law by President
   Clinton: The Savings In Construction Act (which allows more
   cost-effective metric conversion in federal construction projects), and
   the Fast and Efficient Tax Filing Act (which permits taxpayers to send
   their tax returns using express delivery services, letting people avoid
   long lines at the Post Office on April 15).

       Rep. Cox has strongly supported efforts to fight crime.
   Cox-authored legislation to prohibit convicted murderers from
   re-litigating their cases by incessantly filing and re-filing petitions
   in federal court was passed in 1996, 291-140.  It was recently upheld
   by the U.S. Supreme Court.

       Even while Republicans were in the minority, Rep. Cox found ways to
   influence legislation and get his own bills passed.  In 1993, along
   with Democrat Charles Schumer of New York, Rep. Cox was the chief
   Republican sponsor of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, a civil
   liberties bill that received much national attention.  It was signed
   into law by President Clinton on November 16, 1993.  As Chairman of the
   Task Force on Capital Markets in three successive Congresses, he led
   the fight to repeal the so-called "capital gains" penalty tax on
   savings and investment, and to eliminate the double tax on dividends.
   (The capital gains tax rate was finally cut in 1997 after Republicans
   won the majority.)

   Foreign Policy and National Security Priorities

       As Chairman of the Policy Committee, Rep. Cox is well positioned to
   help set our nation's foreign policy in the post-Cold War era.

       On March 15, 2000, House Speaker Dennis Hastert asked him to lead
   the Speaker's Advisory Group on Russia, a special panel of House
   committee chairmen assembled to review U.S. policy toward Russia.

       Rep. Cox's appointment to head a Select Committee on U.S. National
   Security was approved by the near-unanimous vote of the House on June,
   22, 1998, and resulted in the influential Cox Report issued in
   mid-1999.

       His leadership on China policy didn't begin here, however: In the
   105th Congress, Chairman Cox crafted 11 separate bills articulating a
   new, comprehensive China policy that seeks to reward governmental
   respect for individual freedom, democracy, and free enterprise while
   directly addressing Communist failures in these areas.  The House
   unanimously approved the first two Cox bills on China policy in June
   and July, 1997, and then, in a marathon Thursday-through-Sunday session
   during November 1997, considered no fewer than nine more Cox-written
   bills.  Every one was passed, by an average margin of more than 90%.

       During the 1996 Taiwan missile crisis, when the People's Republic
   of China launched nuclear-capable missiles over Taiwan for several days
   prior to the island's first-ever democratic presidential election, Rep.
   Cox authored legislation rebuking the Clinton policy of "strategic
   ambiguity."  The Cox resolution, which stated flatly that if the PRC
   invaded Taiwan then America would defend her militarily, passed the
   House 369-14 and the Senate 97-0.

       Chairman Cox has been a forceful advocate for a greater emphasis on
   defensive weapons, including those protecting U.S. citizens against
   biological, chemical, and nuclear attack.  Under his direction, the
   Policy Committee has led the fight on the floor for both strategic
   missile defense and against the proliferation of weapons of mass
   destruction.

       Rep. Cox has earned international recognition for his continuing
   efforts to assist the former captive nations of the Soviet Empire in
   their transition to democracy and free markets.  He worked successfully
   for the inclusion of former Warsaw Pact nations in the NATO defensive
   alliance.  A Cox resolution calling for the removal of Russian troops
   from the Baltic Sea region of Kaliningrad troops which pose a
   continuing threat to regional security passed the House in 1996, and
   was publicly credited by the Presidents of the three Baltic nations
   with hastening recent Russian troop reductions there.  In October 1998,
   Lithuanian President Valdas Adamkus presented him with the Baltic
   nations highest award for a living foreign leader.

       Rep. Cox is the author of the Support for Eastern European
   Democracy Act, signed into law by President Bush, which facilitated
   private investment in Poland and Hungary instead of wasteful foreign
   aid.  Prior to the collapse of the Soviet Empire, he was a leader in
   the fight to re-establish Baltic independence, and once delivered a
   speech in Russian to 300 members of the Soviet Air Force and Navy in
   the closed Soviet Far East city of Vladivostok.  Rep. Cox's first
   successful bill, H.R. 2022, in 1989, gave refugee status to Ukrainian
   Orthodox and Ukrainian Catholics being persecuted by the Soviet
   government.  It passed unanimously.

       At the requests of President Bush, Speaker of the House Tom Foley,
   Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich, and Speaker of the House Dennis
   Hastert, Rep. Cox has served as an observer to elections in Lithuania,
   Poland, and Russia, and as a delegate of the Helsinki Commission to
   Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania.  His foreign affairs interests include
   the Middle East as well, where he has met with the leaders of Israel,
   Jordan, Syria, and Lebanon, and where in 1991 he traveled to war-torn
   Kuwait and Iraq during the Gulf War.  In our hemisphere, he has served
   as an election observer in El Salvador and as leader of a Mexico City
   delegation to the President and Congressional leaders of Mexico.

   Pre-Congressional Career

       While many on Capitol Hill dream of moving down Pennsylvania Avenue
   to the White House, Christopher Cox, who was then a White House counsel
   to President Reagan, spent 1988 moving the other way up the street to
   Congress.  From 1986-1988, he served as Senior Associate Counsel to
   President Reagan, advising the President on a broad range of policy
   matters including writing President Reagan's Budget Process Reform
   Act (which Rep. Cox later introduced in Congress, and which received
   its first-ever floor vote in 2000).  He also served as an advisor to
   the President on judicial selections, including the nomination and
   confirmation of three Supreme Court Justices.

       Prior to his White House career, Rep. Cox, along with his father, a
   retired publisher, founded a company that provided a complete English
   translation of the former Soviet Union's leading daily paper, Pravda.
   For four years, beginning in 1984, their firm, which had no
   relationship with the Soviet Union, offered a rare glimpse of Soviet
   propaganda designed for the Russians themselves.  The translations were
   used by the CIA, the FBI, U.S. military intelligence, and colleges and
   universities in 26 countries throughout the world.

       From 1978 to 1986, he specialized in venture capital and corporate
   finance with the international law firm of Latham & Watkins, where he
   was the partner in charge of the Corporate Department in Orange County
   and a member of the firm's national management.

       In 1982-83, Rep. Cox took a leave of absence from Latham & Watkins
   to teach federal income tax at Harvard Business School.

       In 1977-78, he was law clerk to U.S. Court of Appeals Judge Herbert
   Choy, the first Asian-American federal appellate judge in America.  The
   preceding year, he graduated simultaneously from Harvard Business
   School and the Harvard Law School, with honors, where for two years he
   served as an Editor of the Harvard Law Review.  He graduated magna cum
   laude from the University of Southern California in 1973, after
   completing a three-year accelerated course.

   Orange County: Hi-Tech World Leader

       Rep. Cox's entrepreneurial background fits the "Tech Coast" of
   Southern California well.  With a population of nearly 3 million people
   and an annual economic output of over $110 billion, Orange County is
   one of the most successful and diverse hi-tech centers of commerce in
   the world.  Its economy is larger than all but 31 nations in the world
   ranking ahead of Israel, Portugal, and Singapore.  Orange County's
   diverse population is larger than 20 states, and its economy is bigger
   than 25 states.  It is one of California's top exporting regions,
   behind only Silicon Valley and Los Angeles, and tied with San
   Francisco.  Orange County exports more than $12 billion worth of goods
   each year, from computers to state-of-the-art medical equipment,
   biotechnology, and other ultra-sophisticated technological goods.  In
   just the last three years, high-tech exports from Orange County
   companies have grown by 53%.

       Orange County is home to some of the most beautiful beaches in the
   world, stretching for miles along the Pacific Ocean between Los Angeles
   and San Diego.  The "Places Rated Almanac" has selected Orange County
   as the best place to live in the nation, ahead of more than 350 other
   metropolitan areas.

       Orange County is a national center for higher education.
   Universities and colleges in Rep. Cox's district include the University
   of California, Irvine, where Rep. Cox serves on the Advisory Board of
   the world-class Brain Imaging Center, and Chapman University, on whose
   Board of Trustees Rep. Cox serves.

       The Anaheim Angels baseball team and the Anaheim Mighty Ducks
   hockey team make their homes in Rep. Cox's district.  The Anaheim Pond,
   home of the Ducks, is also the second most active concert venue in
   America, behind only Madison Square Garden.  Orange County is home to
   the Ronald Reagan Federal Courthouse, authorized in legislation Rep.
   Cox wrote as a member of the House Public Works Committee in 1992.

   Personal

       Christopher Cox was born October 16, 1952.  He, his wife Rebecca,
   and their three children, Charles, Katie, and Kevin, live in Newport
   Beach, California.

                One-page summary of Chairman Cox's biography
