http://www.expo.gsa.gov/training.cfm




   Skip Navigation    Section 508 Tools
   GSA Flag Banner Image
   FSS Application Server


   Home Schedule Registration Exhibitors Training Matrix Lodging

      [GSAFREET.gif]

         Expo 2002 means valuable training
         the type that can have an immediate impact on you and your agency
         that will enable you to do things easier, with more knowledge and
   better
         resultsthat essentially can make your life easier (and we could
   all use that).
         Attending the Expo means having the opportunity to choose from
   over 100
         hours of training sessions. What you learn will provide you with
   powerful
         purchasing tools aimed at getting the best value for the Federal
   dollar. And
         you can stay all day because a FREE LUNCH will be provided daily!
       Check back on January 25^th for a complete schedule of classes.

          You'll earn CEU credits, too.
          In addition to gaining valuable knowledge Expo 2002 will offer
   numerous courses that allow you
          to receive CEU credit toward your annual training requirement in
   1102 procurement.

          Some of the training tracks and courses include:
          Track: Services and Products (IT Services, Security Solutions,
   GSA Professional Services Overview)
          Track: New Technology (GSA Advantage!, E-Buy)
          Track: Professional Procurement (Placing and Administering GSA
   Orders, Schedules 1-2-3,
                      Acquisition Stategies, Managing Your Purchase Card
   Program)
          Track: Transportation, Travel and Property Management (GSA's
   Airline City Pair Program,
                      Car/Truck Rental Programs, Federal Travel Regulation
   (FTR)-Relocations Allowances)

          Additional training involving travel, transportation and
   property operations.
          You'll learn new techniques of management regarding these
   topics, plus any new laws, codes,
          regulations, procedures, etc. You will also receive advice and
   tips from professionals who have
          explored these areas further than most.

          GSA Expo 2002. It's just plain smart to be there.
