http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Study/Landslide/

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
   DAACs Features

     When Land Slides   by Laurie J. Schmidt
   December 21, 2001

   Summer of 2001 was a season of devastating landslides. During June and
   July, landslides and floods throughout China's southern provinces left
   thousands dead or homeless. At least 35 people died in a landslide west
   of Kathmandu, Nepal, and intense rain triggered severe flooding and
   landslides in 20 counties in West Virginia. In August, a landslide
   caused Ecuador's Sote oil pipeline to break, spilling some 1,000
   barrels of crude oil and halting oil transport for a week.
       Title graphic: Slope failure near McClure Pass, Colorado, destroys
   a two-lane highway and leaves a car stranded in the debris. (Image
   courtesy of the USGS)
   Slumgullion landslide
   The Slumgullion landslide in Hinsdale County, Colorado, probably dammed
   Lake Fork between 800 and 900 years ago. Based on photogeologic
   analysis, it appears to be the only landslide in the area with
   continuously moving material. (Image courtesy of the USGS Slumgullion
   Field Trip. A new browser window will open.)
   For more information, visit the Alaska SAR Facility and the EROS Data
   Center. (A new browser window will open.)
   Mass wasting, the downward gravitation of rock, debris, and dirt,
   continually sculpts Earth's landscapes. Research indicates that on most
   slopes, a certain amount of downhill movement is occurring constantly,
   although it may often be imperceptible.

   Landslides — sudden, short-lived geomorphic events that involve the
   rapid-to-slow descent of soil or rock in sloping terrains — occur
   worldwide, often in conjunction with natural hazards like earthquakes,
   floods, or volcanic eruptions. Landslides can also be caused by
   excessive precipitation or human activities, such as deforestation or
   development, that disturb natural slope stability.

   On average, landslides in the United States cause $1 to $2 billion in
   property damage and more than 25 fatalities per year. Posing threats to
   settlements and structures, landslides often result in catastrophic
   damage to highways, railways, waterways, and pipelines. According to
   the U.S. Transportation Research Board, annual costs for the repair of
   minor slope failures by state departments of transportation exceed $100
   million.

   Golden landslide
   In a landslide triggered by the 1994 Northridge, California,
   earthquake, this house crumbled near Golden, Colorado. (Image courtesy
   of the USGS Open-file Report 95-213. A new browser window will open.)

   To determine where protective measures are necessary, scientists
   produce landslide inventory and risk assessment maps for many areas in
   the United States and Canada. But because landslides do not display a
   clear relationship between magnitude and frequency, as do earthquakes
   and floods, landslide studies are challenging to scientists. "It is
   very difficult to represent landslide hazards in quantitative terms
   over large areas," said Vernon Singhroy, Senior Research Scientist at
   the Canada Centre for Remote Sensing.

   Although aerial photography has been used extensively to produce
   landslide inventory maps, air photos are not readily available in all
   areas. Scientists increasingly rely on global satellite data to help
   assess the risk for potential landslides.

   The Thematic Mapper (TM), an Earth observing instrument aboard NASA's
   Landsat 4 and 5 satellites, measures solar radiation reflected or
   emitted by the Earth's surface, providing high-resolution images of the
   Earth's surface. Its large-area mapping capabilities make it a useful
   tool for land cover mapping and assessment. But the TM's spatial
   resolution is generally considered too coarse to accurately identify
   landslide features — unless the data are merged with higher resolution
   radar images.

   Synthetic aperture radar (SAR) instruments transmit radar signals and
   then measure how strongly the signals are scattered back. Because SAR
   produces its own radar signal which can penetrate cloud cover, the
   sensor generates images with greater detail at a higher spatial
   resolution, and making it especially useful for mapping the
   geomorphology of landslides.

   "SAR images provide information on the terrain roughness and texture,
   while TM images provide an infrared reflection of the object," said
   Singhroy.

   By combining two images from different instruments, Singhroy and
   colleagues found they could produce a third image containing
   topographic details essential to producing high-quality landslide maps.
   The process, known as image fusion, combines radar terrain information
   with Landsat spectral land cover images. "Fused images are now used
   frequently in geologic mapping and geohazard assessment, such as
   landslide mapping," said Singhroy.

   The researchers are also experimenting with another technique, known as
   radar interferometry, to produce slope maps that will aid in slope
   stability studies in mountainous terrains prone to landslides. SAR
   interferometry (INSAR) operates on the premise that if the
   backscattered signal differs between two images of the same object,
   taken at two different times, then the object has moved or changed.
   INSAR imagery is used to monitor landslide motion and produce detailed
   contour maps, which help characterize hazardous areas.

   "SAR interferometry is a useful tool for detecting and monitoring mass
   movement and, therefore, contributes to the assessment and mitigation
   of landslide hazards," said Singhroy. "Major geomorphic features, such
   as slides, ridges, and faults, are well-defined and easily interpreted
   in InSAR images. These features provide clues that help us map
   potential slide areas."

   Radarsat-1, an advanced Earth observation satellite launched by the
   Canadian Space Agency in 1995, produces InSAR images for landslide
   assessment. Other radar systems, such as the European Remote Sensing
   Satellite (ERS) 1 and 2 and NASA's Shuttle Radar Topography Mission
   (SRTM), also have potential for geohazard assessment.

   Singhroy, along with colleagues K. Mattar and L. Gray, used InSAR and
   high-resolution SAR images to map the geomorphic features of landslide
   areas in the Fraser Valley, located in British Columbia, Canada.
   Landslides in the Fraser Valley, which links the resource-rich prairie
   provinces with metropolitan Vancouver, have caused serious damage to
   major transportation links. In 1997, landslides caused the derailment
   of the Canadian National Railway, resulting in two deaths and $20
   million in damage. To date, 35 landslides, ranging in size from 1
   million to 500 million cubic meters, have been identified in the Fraser
   Valley.

   Airborne-SAR Image caption
   Airborne-SAR Image
   Legend
   Integrated Landsat-TM/SAR Image (IHS) caption
   Integrated Landsat-TM/SAR Image (IHS)

   These two images show a landslide area along the North Saskatchewan
   River, Saskatchewan, Canada: High-resolution SAR image (top), and
   combined Landsat-TM/SAR image (bottom). (Images courtesy of Vernon
   Singhroy, CCRS)

   Singhroy said that, although the role of Earth observation data in
   producing landslide maps is still in its infancy, developing new remote
   sensing techniques to identify landslides and debris flows will assist
   in the current national landslide inventory and hazard mapping in
   mountainous terrains.

   "The integration of SAR and TM images, along with SAR interferometric
   techniques, are extremely useful in characterizing landslides and will
   supplement the air photo methods currently being used," said Singhroy
   in an article published in Advances in Space Research.

   According to Singhroy, fused data images create image perspectives that
   can help civil defense workers know where potentially hazardous areas
   are. "In the case of volcanoes, they help us map dangerous terrains and
   potential lava paths," he said.

   The 1985 volcanic eruption of Nevado del Ruiz in the Columbian Andes
   Mountains proved just how invaluable accurate hazard maps are in
   identifying at-risk communities. When the volcano erupted, glacier melt
   spawned massive mudflows that buried 20,000 people in the town of
   Armero overnight. "The hazard zone was actually much larger than the
   risk maps had indicated," said Singhroy. (See Life on the Brink for
   information about population centers on or near volcanoes.)

   "Image fusion and perspective views will help us mitigate these risks.
   We need to learn how to live in hazardous areas and use these tools to
   minimize damage," he said.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Singhroy, V., K.E. Mattar, and A.L. Gray. 1998. Landslide
   Characterisation in Canada Using Interferometric SAR and Combined SAR
   and TM Images. Advances in Space Research. 21(3). pp. 465-476.

   Singhroy, V. and K.E. Mattar. 2000. SAR Image Techniques for Mapping
   Areas of Landslides. Proceedings ISPRS Congress, Amsterdam, 2000. pp.
   1395-1402.

   USGS National Landslides Hazards Program Accessed September 6, 2001.

   CEOS Landslide Management Accessed September 6, 2001.

     The NASA Distributed Active Archive Centers (DAACs) provide data and
     user services in support of the Earth observing sciences.


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
