http://www.sc.doe.gov/feature_articles_2001/may/program_summaries/ed11.PDF

   Office of Science Science Education Helping to Prepare Tomorrow's
   Scientific Enterprise http://www.scied.science.doe.gov The Office of
   Science conducts educational and training activities to ensure a
   pipeline of scientific, engineering, and technical personnel, and
   manages an extensive and advanced complex of scientific facilities that
   is fertile ground for the training of the Nation's future scientific
   and technical work force. The Opportunity: This Nation is blessed with
   a rich culture of scientific inquiry, scientists who are at the
   forefront of innovation and discovery, some of the best schools and
   universities in the world, and a growing technology sector to employ
   young scientists and engineers. At our unique scientific facilities,
   and in conjunction with university and industry partners, the Office of
   Science has an opportunity to help create and educate a U.S. science
   and technology workforce of the future without equal in the world. The
   Challenge: To continue our global leadership in science and technology,
   the United States must cultivate and nurture a new generation of
   scientists and engineers who will ensure our technology future. But our
   schools and universities are struggling to produce a workforce
   sufficiently skilled to do the work our Nation will require, a
   workforce that at the same time is as diverse as America itself. A
   cornerstone of American competitiveness is, and must continue to be, an
   excellent science and technology education that gives all students an
   equal opportunity to excel in the workforce of the future. FY 2002
   Investment Plan: In FY 2002 The Office of Science will continue to
   support undergraduate research internships at its laboratories for
   undergraduate students from four-year institutions, community college
   students and pre-service teachers preparing to teach math, science or
   technology at the K-12 level. * Students apply on-line to these
   programs and are selected on a competitive basis. * Students are
   matched with mentors working in the students' fields of interest. *
   Students spend an intensive 10-16 weeks working under the individual
   mentorship of resident scientists and must each produce an abstract and
   formal research report. * Students attend seminars that broaden their
   view of career options and help them understand how to become members
   of the scientific community. * Pre-service teachers are also mentored
   by master teachers, who help them develop education modules to transfer
   the research experience back to the classroom. Program goals and
   outcomes are measured based on students' research papers, abstracts,
   surveys and outside evaluation. An undergraduate student journal was
   recently created which publishes selected full research papers and all
   abstracts of student research in the program. A system is being created
   to track students in their academic career paths. April 2001 Continued
   Science Education http://www.scied.science.doe.gov To attract a wider
   cross section of students, the Department of Energy has entered into a
   collaboration with the National Science Foundation (NSF). Students
   participating in NSF undergraduate programs will be encouraged to apply
   for Office of Science undergraduate research internship opportunities.
   The partnership with NSF will be expanded in FY 2002. To encourage high
   school students involvement in the sciences, the Office of Science
   manages the National Science Bowl "" for high school students. Over
   11,000 students from across the country, ranging from the U.S. Virgin
   Islands and Puerto Rico to Hawaii and the Tribal Nations, compete in
   over 50 regional competitions in this fast-paced, question-and-answer
   tournament that test their knowledge in math, science and technology.
   About 300 students and teachers, representing the winners of the
   regional competitions, come to Washington, D.C. the first weekend in
   May for the national competition. The Office of Science also manages
   the legislated Albert Einstein Distinguished Educator Fellowships
   Program. Selected teachers spend up to one year in a Congressional
   Office, the Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation, the
   National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Institutes
   of Health, the Department of Education, the Environmental Protection
   Agency, the National Institute of Science and Technology or the White
   House Office of Science and Technology Policy. Einstein Fellows bring
   to Congress and appropriate branches of the Federal government the
   extensive knowledge and experience of classroom teachers. Benefits:
   Through the Office of Science, students can get information on the
   latest scientific research being conducted in our national
   laboratories, be part of scientific teams that are actively doing
   hands-on research, and receive guidance from some of the best
   scientists in the world. These students will be trained in
   problem-solving environments, have access to advanced scientific
   instruments and have gained experience in the process of scientific
   data collection, analysis and management.
   http://www.scied.science.doe.gov April 2001
