http://www.md.nrcs.usda.gov/mdstory.htm


   United States Department of Agriculture
   [greenfade.jpg]
   Address and phone number

                                Raindrop logo
   Natural Resources Conservation Service

   [sky_1.jpg]
   [strips_top.gif]

   Home
   News
   Success Stories
   Staff Directory
   Links
   Conservation Updates
   Programs
   Engineering, Resource Conservation, Soils and Conservation Practice
   Standards
   Publications
   Volunteer Program
   Partners
   About Us
   Maryland FTP Site
   Civil Rights & Special Emphasis


                            Maryland State Story

     The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Natural Resources Conservation
     Service (NRCS) works in Maryland through 24 soil conservation
     districts, and in the District of Columbia through one soil and
     water conservation district, all subdivisions of the Maryland and
     District of Columbia governments. Conservation districts cover 100
     percent of the land in Maryland and the District of Columbia.

     There are almost 6.8 million acres of land in Maryland, with
     approximately one-third of the State’s land used for agriculture. A
     1997 census shows that Maryland has 12,084 farms, covering 2.15
     million acres. The State lost 3 percent of its farmland and 7
     percent of its farms according to the 1997 census.

     While farmland was decreasing, the census reported that the average
     sales per farm jumped 21 percent, due to the increasing value of the
     food and fiber produced on farms. Agriculture remains Maryland’s
     number one industry, generating $17.8 billion. Maryland ranks eighth
     in the nation, just behind California, in terms of the average value
     of crops produced per acre of Maryland land, $733.

     Farmers continue to face increasing pressure to sell their land for
     residential and commercial development. The census revealed that the
     average value of farm real estate in Maryland reached a record
     $4,120 per acre in 1997. The national average in 1997 was $1,000 per
     acre. Maryland has the fifth most expensive farmland in the nation.

     Demand for services provided by NRCS and Soil Conservation Districts
     is increasing as conservation technical assistance is provided to
     both farm and urban residents. Citizens are becoming increasingly
     aware of the role they must play in using conservation practices,
     such as nutrient management and planting streamside buffers, to
     protect water quality and conserve natural resources.

     Workload Analysis: In August 1998, Maryland’s Conservation
     Partnership – the Maryland Association of Soil Conservation
     Districts (MASCD), the Maryland Department of Agriculture (MDA), and
     NRCS – participated in a national Workload Analysis project. The
     analysis identified, at the county Field Office level, the local,
     natural resource needs for FY99 and the staff required to respond to
     those concerns. It then evaluated, by County, the work to be done
     against the partnership’s existing staff capability.

     The projected FY99 workload was categorized into 5 land use areas
     needing conservation practices. The FY99 workload shows increases
     over FY98 in treating acres of cropland, forestland, pasture, and
     rangeland. The FY99 workload puts conservation practices on 32% more
     land (54,617 additional acres) than in FY98.


          Land Use

                                               FY99 Projected Work
                                                     (acres)
          Cropland

                                                     129,433
          Forestland

                                                     66,249
          Wildlife

                                                     12,446
          Pasture

                                                     16,854
          Rangeland

                                                       770
          Total

                                                     225,752

     Conservation Highlights

     Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP): In 1998, NRCS
     approved 474 contracts that provided cost-share of $1.725 million to
     farmers to resolve natural resources concerns identified through
     locally led conservation working groups. Over the past two years,
     Maryland has received approximately $3.2 million to fund EQIP
     conservation work (FY98-$1.8 million, FY97-$1.4 million). This year,
     Maryland received $1.5 million in FY99 EQIP funding.

     EQIP was established in the 1996 Farm Bill as a voluntary
     conservation program for farmers and ranchers who face serious
     threats to soil, water and related natural resources. Priority areas
     of special environmental sensitivity are identified through a
     locally led conservation process. EQIP offers financial,
     educational, and technical assistance to install or implement
     structural, vegetative and management practices called for in 5 to
     10 year contracts for agricultural land uses.

     In October 1998, NRCS Maryland cohosted a public meeting called a
     Listening Session on EQIP and its implementation process. This
     session was part of a series of national listening sessions at the
     grass-roots level with the public, especially farmers and
     landowners, on successes with EQIP, and to hear suggestions for
     improvement in the program’s administration.

     This was one of eight sessions held throughout the nation by USDA.
     At the Maryland session, officials heard 21 oral testimonies and
     received 14 copies of written testimony. Participants included
     farmers, landowners, and representatives from soil conservation
     districts, Resource Conservation & Development Councils, and
     conservation groups. Approximately 80 people attended the listening
     session.

     Common concerns included four times as many applications as funds,
     the schedule of program implementation versus the farmer’s planning
     season, increasing decision making at local levels, competitive
     ranking system, and excessive paperwork and planning involved in
     preliminary signup process. Overall, participants believed EQIP
     would improve water quality and animal ag management, but felt more
     funds were needed. All comments will be evaluated by USDA as future
     improvements are made to the program.

     Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program (CREP): Innovative, new
     program designed to address water quality concerns in Chesapeake Bay
     Watershed. The Maryland CREP is the first, state-driven USDA CRP
     enhancement program and was funded at $195 million of cost-share
     over the next 15 years. In the program’s first year (1998), 508
     contracts were signed with landowners to enroll 5,724 acres in CREP.
     CREP offers landowners 50 and 75 percent bonus payments to land
     enrolled under CRP for specific practices, such as riparian forest
     buffers, vegetative buffers, and restoration of wetlands. CREP has a
     goal of 100,000 acres, of which 70 percent of enrolled land will be
     riparian forest buffers and filter strips.

     Farmland Protection Program: Maryland received $1.4 million to
     preserve farmland through USDA’s Farmland Protection Program in
     1998. NRCS administers the Farmland Protection Program. These USDA
     funds, when coupled with funds from state and local agricultural
     land preservation programs, are used to purchase development rights
     and keep productive farmland in use. NRCS provided technical
     assistance to the Maryland Agricultural Land Preservation Foundation
     and seven local county programs to acquire easements on 25 farms and
     4,215 acres. Proposals to preserve farmland were selected in each of
     Maryland’s 23 counties, except Allegany, Garrett, Prince Georges,
     Wicomico and Worcester.

     Over the past three years, Maryland has received $3 million, or
     approximately 9 percent, of the funds allocated nationally through
     this program. This high funding level, when Maryland was competing
     with other states for funding, reflects Maryland’s ongoing
     commitment to preserving farmland and working together in locally
     led conservation partnerships.

     Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program (WHIP): Last year, NRCS entered
     into 65 cost-share agreements paying landowners $135,000 to restore
     wildlife habitat. Over the next five years, these funds will pay for
     the planned restoration of 309 acres of upland habitat in primarily
     native warm-season grasses and 43 acres of riparian habitat. This
     year, Maryland received funding of $245,000. Now in its second year,
     Maryland has received a total of $382,000 in WHIP funds.

     Last year’s funding provided cost-share reimbursement to farmers,
     landowners and schools that planted native grasses or restored
     riparian buffers and streambanks for use as wildlife habitat. WHIP
     conservation practices restore and manage upland grass habitat and
     riparian buffers to benefit game birds, song birds, and other
     wildlife.

     Ducks Unlimited and the Chesapeake Bay Foundation are again
     providing additional cost-share funds to WHIP participants. The
     additional funds will cover up to 25% of the project and when
     combined with 75% funded by WHIP, there can be virtually no cost to
     the landowner.

     WHIP is an important conservation program because it restores
     habitat that was lost due to intensive farming and urbanization.
     Private and public schools are encouraged to apply for WHIP funds to
     create wildlife habitat areas and stream buffers on their school
     grounds. Conservation practices installed through WHIP provide
     schools with an excellent resource for developing outdoor
     educational classrooms where wildlife can be studied.

     Wetlands Reserve Program: 10 approved contracts to enroll about 400
     acres through cost-share payments of almost $500,000. Long-term loss
     of nontidal wetlands has been a great concern in Maryland and the
     Chesapeake Bay region. Extensive conversion of wetlands,
     particularly to agricultural land on the DelMarVa Peninsula has
     occurred for hundreds of years. Voluntary wetland restorations
     through the Wetland Reserve Program (WRP) is one means of reversing
     this trend. Restoring these wetlands will result in many benefits.
     Wetlands provide habitat for more then 200 migratory and resident
     bird species and other wildlife and improve water quality by
     retaining and removing nutrients from surface waters.

     Soil Surveys: About 1.6 million acres have been modernized and
     placed into a georeferencing environment in the following counties:
     Dorchester, Montgomery, Queen Anne’s, Washington, Worcester, and the
     City of Baltimore and Aberdeen Proving Ground.

     Locally Led Conservation: Maryland’s Conservation Partnership
     successfully strengthened locally led conservation through the
     implementation process of EQIP and other Farm Bill Programs and work
     on high priority concerns, such as nutrient management and the
     Chesapeake Bay.

     NRCS Maryland welcomed international visitors who wanted a
     first-hand look at locally led conservation. The Talbot Soil
     Conservation District on Maryland’s Eastern Shore hosted
     representatives from Japan’s Ministry of Agriculture and National
     Research Institute of Agricultural Economics. They toured Talbot
     County to see how partnerships were set-up in Maryland and how
     districts worked together to accomplish conservation practices and
     provide funding to farmers and landowners. Japan is working to
     develop soil conservation districts. The visitors commented on the
     strong environmental policies in Maryland and enjoyed touring best
     management practices, such as chicken waste structures, compost
     building, grassed waterways, and filter strips.

     Urban Outreach with Backyard Conservation: NRCS Maryland displayed a
     Backyard Conservation exhibit at the Spring Home and Garden
     Exposition that featured native plants and conservation practices in
     a 40 foot garden exhibit. The native plant garden was designed and
     stocked with plants by the USDA National Plant Materials Center,
     located in Beltsville, Maryland. The show, held over two weekends in
     March at the Maryland State Fairgrounds in Timonium, drew about
     30,000 visitors. NRCS provided educational outreach through backyard
     conservation handouts and free seed packets of black-eyed
     susan-flower seeds that were printed with NRCS’s name and
     information on the backyard conservation program. Most visitors to
     the show live do not live on farms and enjoyed the urban
     conservation information NRCS provided.

     Maryland State Technical Committee: Committee membership and
     responsibilities were expanded to ensure consideration of a broad
     range of natural resource concerns. Committee members have played a
     strong leadership and advisory role in EQIP implementation, local
     watershed program management, and locally led conservation.

     Nutrient Management: NRCS and conservation partners in Maryland are
     working together to evaluate voluntary conservation practices
     related to nutrient management, particularly phosphorus and animal
     waste management techniques. The potential link between excessive
     nutrient levels (from poultry operations, point sources, and
     nonpoint sources) and the microorganism, pfiesteria, which produced
     fish kills in several tributaries of the Chesapeake Bay, has
     heightened public and media interest in nutrient management. NRCS is
     providing technical expertise to the State of Maryland as
     regulations for mandatory nutrient management are developed under
     the 1998 Water Quality Improvement Act. Maryland’s existing,
     voluntary Nutrient Management Program has saved farmers, on average,
     over $20 per acre through soil and manure testing and specific
     nutrient management recommendations based on realistic yield goals,
     soil type, and previous crop nutrient carryover.

     From September - December 1998, USDA and the EPA solicited public
     comment on the draft Strategy for Animal Feeding Operations (AFO).
     On December 15, 1998, NRCS and the EPA hosted a Listening Session in
     Annapolis, Maryland, that drew more than 225 individuals. Following
     a brief overview of the strategy and an update on Maryland issues by
     MDA and MDE, 35 speakers presented comments to the listening panel,
     which included the NRCS State Conservationist and officials from
     EPA, USDA, and Maryland Extension Service. Speakers included US
     Representative Wayne Gilchrest, about 10 farmers and conservation
     district supervisors from Maryland, West Virginia, and Delaware,
     environmental organizations like the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, the
     Sierra Club and HazTrack; and industry groups, like the DelMarVa
     Poultry Industry, the National Cattleman’s Beef Association, the
     National Pork Producers Council, and the National Turkey Federation.

     The majority of the speakers said that farmers are already doing a
     good job as land stewards and further controls and regulations are
     not needed. It was suggested that EPA should work directly with the
     landowners who had problems and not place the burden of blanket
     regulations on farmers and producers who were already voluntarily
     complying with regulations. Comments also focused on the need for
     "education, not regulation" of practices. Other speakers stressed
     the need for fair, consistent, and enforced regulations that would
     apply to all, and not place the burden on one group – specifically
     the poultry growers and farmers. USDA and the EPA released the final
     strategy in March 1999.

     Earth Team Volunteers: 428 volunteers donated a total of 15,974
     hours (valued at $13.74/hour) for a total of approximately $219,400
     of support to NRCS. Seventy percent of NRCS offices in Maryland use
     volunteers. The program coordinator reports that Maryland had the
     largest number of volunteers and volunteer hours in the NRCS East
     Region. Maryland’s return on investment is strong: For each dollar
     spent on the program, the NRCS return was $269. High school students
     (at least 14 years old) can joint the Earth Team and count the
     volunteer time toward their community service graduation
     requirement.

     Organization

     NRCS in Maryland and the District of Columbia work through the 25
     soil conservation districts to provide technical, financial
     cost-share, and educational assistance to all landowners and
     landusers of private and State lands.

     Three Resource Conservation and Development (RC&D) Areas are
     established in Maryland. The Eastern Shore RC&D covers nine counties
     from Cecil to Somerset Counties, the Southern Maryland RC&D covers
     Charles, Calvert, and St. Mary’s Counties, and the Western Maryland
     RC&D covers the five counties from Carroll County west to Garrett
     County.

     The Maryland NRCS staff works using a team-based approach. Maryland
     has four field teams: the Eastern Shore Field Team, the Mason-Dixon
     Field Team, the Southern Maryland Field Team, and the Western Field
     Team. The Field Teams are also a subgroup of regional partnership
     teams that work at the field level to advance our common
     conservation mission. Key participants in the partnership teams are
     NRCS, the Soil Conservation Districts, and the Maryland Department
     of Agriculture. NRCS State Office employees also use a team approach
     and serve as coaches/advisors for field staff.

     NRCS Maryland is leading the effort to develop a strategic plan for
     the Maryland Conservation Partnership. The plan will focus on the
     goals outlined in the Strategic Plan for the NorthEast Conservation
     Partnership. The Maryland Conservation Partnership produces a
     quarterly newsletter, Partnership Press, to inform employees of
     conservation news.

     Maryland has a strong and effective working relationship with its
     partners, and has embraced the one-stop USDA Service Center concept.
     NRCS offices are collated with offices of the Soil Conservation
     Districts, Maryland Department of Agriculture, and USDA’s Farm
     Service Agency and Maryland Cooperative Extension.

     Operations

     During FY98, the total number of clients who voluntarily worked with
     NRCS and the Conservation Partnership to apply conservation
     practices on their land increased to approximately 40,000. Field
     Offices provided information on natural resource conservation to
     over 2,200 individuals, schools, local governments, and businesses.
     In addition, direct technical assistance was provided to 4,309
     clients in order to develop and implement conservation plans.

     The conservation practices which were applied as a result of these
     plans benefited over 92,944 acres of cropland, 4,995 acres of
     pasture and hayland, and 2,236 acres of land devoted to enhance
     wildlife habitat. Nutrient management continues to be an integral
     part of the conservation plans developed with waste management
     systems and nutrient management plans being implemented on 20,112
     acres.

     In addition to technical assistance, many clients benefited from
     cost-share assistance through Federal programs. Approximately 500
     applications for Federal cost-share programs, such as EQIP, CRP, and
     WRP were processed during FY98.

     NRCS Maryland actively participates in the Chesapeake Bay Program,
     through the Federal Agencies Agreement as part of the special
     tributary strategy to control nonpoint source pollution within the
     Chesapeake Bay. This agreement, calls for NRCS to provide technical
     assistance to Federal agencies as they develop nutrient management
     and stormwater runoff plans for all Federal facilities in the
     District of Columbia. The Chesapeake Bay Watershed covers virtually
     all of Maryland, except a small portion along the Atlantic Ocean and
     a small portion in Western Maryland. Technical specialists from
     Maryland also provide support to many of the committees through the
     Bay program, including those for Nutrient Management, Living
     Resources, Modeling, Pest Management, Riparian Buffers, and
     Communications.

     The Soils Staff have completed special watershed projects in five
     counties: Anne Arundel, Frederick, Harford, Prince George's, and
     Somerset. Numerous special studies are underway to evaluate
     potential solutions to the problem of acid sulfate soils, as well as
     subaqueous mapping in shallow waters of the Chesapeake Bay and
     hydric soil temperature studies. Soil survey activities to update
     soils information is ongoing in Anne Arundel, Frederick, Somerset,
     and Wicomico Counties, with plans for updating Charles and Howard
     Counties in the near future.

     NRCS actively supports urban conservation and has established a
     resource conservationist position for the District of Columbia as
     part of USDA’s Urban Environmental Resources Initiative for the
     District of Columbia. NRCS Maryland provides both technical and
     communications support for this project.

     Key Conservation Leaders in Maryland


     NRCS
     State Conservationist                      David P. Doss
     Assistant State Conservationist            Margaret Rhodes
     Maryland Association of Conservation Districts
     President                                  Robert Wilson
     Maryland Legislature
     Governor                                   Parris Glendening
     Maryland Department of Agriculture
     Secretary                                  Dr. Henry "Bud" Virts. DVM
     Assistant Secretary, Resource Conservation Royden Powell, III
     Maryland State Soil Conservation Committee
     Chairman                                   David Thomas
     Maryland Department of Natural Resources
     Secretary                                  Dr. Sarah Taylor-Rogers
     Maryland Department of Environment
     Secretary                                  Jane Nishida
     Chesapeake Bay Program Partnership
     Chair, Executive Council                   Parris Glendening
     Director, Program Office                   William Matuszeski


   January 17, 2002 LD
