http://www.ta.doc.gov/PRel/pr011205.htm

      [REDBAR]

   For Immediate Release
   December 5, 2001
                        Contacts: Cheryl Mendonsa, Technology Administration
                                  Telephone: 202 482-8321
                                  Email: cheryl.mendonsa@ta.doc.gov, or
                                  Marjorie Weisskohl, Technology Administration
                                  Telephone: 202 482-0149
                                  Email: Mweisskohl@ta.doc.gov
      [REDBAR]

                             With TPA, Everybody Wins

       Congressional Support for Trade Promotion Authority Essential to U.S.
      Technology Leadership & Global Economic Prosperity says Commerce Under
                                  Secretary Bond

      Under Secretary for Technology Phillip J. Bond today called upon all
      members of Congress to protect Americas global competitiveness in the
      Information Age by supporting enactment of Trade Promotion Authority.

      No single issue is more important to the health of our high-tech sector
      than free and fair access to global markets, said Under Secretary Bond.
      Trade Promotion Authority is the key to sustained American high-tech
      leadership, and Congress has the opportunity to send an important
      signal to technology markets.

      Americas high tech sector is largely responsible for the nations
      economic prosperity-driving economic growth, job creation and a rising
      standard of living. Among the key statistics cited by Bond:
        * Americas high-tech sector accounts for 29% of U.S. merchandise
          exports.
        * Exports are critical for our IT sector, accounting for half of
          total product revenues.
        * The high-tech sector has accounted for 30% of real GDP growth in
          the U.S. since 1995.
        * Trade and technology produce and support high-wage jobs.

      And let me be clear on an important point: Trade Promotion Authority is
      not a partisan issue. Forward-looking New Democrats, such as U.S. Rep.
      Cal Dooley of California and U.S. Rep. Jim Moran of Virginia, support
      TPA because they understand the important linkage between our global
      security, national prosperity, the U.S. high tech sector and trade
      liberalization, said Bond.

                                     - MORE -

      The absence of TPA hurts the U.S. tech sector while benefiting foreign
      competition, offered Bond. If Congress fails to support TPA, it will
      undermine the ability of Americas technology sector to provide the jobs
      of the future.

      In addition, the benefits of technology and trade are realized not just
      at home, but around the world. These powerful forces have created vast
      economic opportunity, generated wealth and jobs for millions, raised
      the standards of living in disadvantaged nations, and fostered peace
      and security around the world, added Bond.

      Finally, U.S. environmental technology exports extend the promise of
      cleaner, healthier air and water and other ecological benefits across
      the globe. I believe that a vote for Trade Promotion Authority is a
      vote for global prosperity, peace and a cleaner environment. With TPA,
      everybody wins, Bond concluded.
