http://www.nwtrb.gov/reports/2002ltr.pdf

   UNITED STATES NUCLEAR WASTE TECHNICAL REVIEW BOARD 2300 Clarendon
   Boulevard, Suite 1300 Arlington, VA 22201 January 24, 2002 The
   Honorable Dennis Hastert Speaker of the House United States House of
   Representatives Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Robert C. Byrd
   President Pro Tempore United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 The
   Honorable Spencer Abraham Secretary United States Department of Energy
   Washington, DC 20585 Dear Speaker Hastert, Senator Byrd, and Secretary
   Abraham: Congress created the U.S. Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board
   (Board) in the 1987 amendments to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act and
   charged it with performing an ongoing independent evaluation of the
   technical and scientific validity of activities undertaken by the
   Secretary of Energy related to disposing of spent nuclear fuel and
   high-level radioactive waste. The Board's primary focus since its
   establishment has been the Department of Energy's (DOE)
   characterization of a potential repository site at Yucca Mountain in
   Nevada. In a December 11, 2001, letter to Secretary of Energy Spencer
   Abraham, the Board indicated that it would comment within a few weeks
   to the Secretary and Congress on the DOE's technical and scientific
   work related to a decision on a Yucca Mountain site recommendation.
   Consistent with that commitment and in accordance with its
   congressional mandate, the Board submits this letter and attachments
   summarizing the results of the Board's evaluation of the DOE's work.
   The Board's evaluation is based on (1) the results of the Board's
   ongoing review of the DOE's Yucca Mountain technical and scientific
   investigations since the Board's inception; (2) an evaluation of the
   DOE's work on the natural and engineered components of the proposed
   repository system, using a list of technical questions identified by
   the Board; (3) a comprehensive Board review of draft and final
   documents supplied by the DOE through mid- November 2001; and (4) field
   observations by Board members at Yucca Mountain and related sites. The
   Board's evaluation represents the collective judgment of its members.
   Attachments to this letter present a more detailed discussion of the
   Board's conclusions, the process used by the Board to arrive at its
   conclusions, and background information on the Board. srr018vf In
   evaluating the DOE's technical and scientific work related to
   individual natural and engineered components of the proposed repository
   system, the Board finds varying degrees of strength and weakness. Such
   variability is not surprising, given that the Yucca Mountain project is
   in many respects a first-of-a-kind, complex undertaking. When the DOE's
   technical and scientific work is taken as a whole, the Board's view is
   that the technical basis for the DOE's repository performance estimates
   is weak to moderate at this time. The Board makes no judgment on the
   question of whether the Yucca Mountain site should be recommended or
   approved for repository development. Those judgments, which involve a
   number of public policy considerations as well as an assessment of how
   much technical certainty is necessary at various decision points, go
   beyond the Board's congressionally established mandate. The DOE uses a
   complex integrated performance assessment model to project repository
   system performance. Performance assessment is a useful tool because it
   assesses how well the repository system as a whole, not just the site
   or the engineered components, might perform. However, gaps in data and
   basic understanding cause important uncertainties in the concepts and
   assumptions on which the DOE's performance estimates are now based.
   Because of these uncertainties, the Board has limited confidence in
   current performance estimates generated by the DOE's performance
   assessment model. This is not an assessment of the Board's level of
   confidence in the Yucca Mountain site. At this point, no individual
   technical or scientific factor has been identified that would
   automatically eliminate Yucca Mountain from consideration as the site
   of a permanent repository. As discussed below, the Board believes that
   confidence in the DOE's projections of repository performance can be
   increased. An international consensus is emerging that a fundamental
   understanding of the potential behavior of a proposed repository system
   is of importance comparable to the importance of showing compliance
   with regulations. The Board agrees that such basic understanding is
   very important. Therefore, if policy-makers decide to approve the Yucca
   Mountain site, the Board strongly recommends that, in addition to
   demonstrating regulatory compliance, the DOE continue a vigorous,
   well-integrated scientific investigation to increase its fundamental
   understanding of the potential behavior of the repository system.
   Increased understanding could show that components of the repository
   system perform better than or not as well as the DOE's performance
   assessment model now projects. In either case, making performance
   projections more realistic and characterizing the full range of
   uncertainty could increase confidence in the DOE's performance
   estimates. The DOE's estimates of repository performance currently rely
   heavily on engineered components of the repository system, making
   corrosion of the waste package very important. High temperatures in the
   DOE's base-case repository design increase uncertainties and decrease
   confidence in the performance of waste package materials. Confidence in
   waste package and repository performance potentially could increase if
   the DOE adopts a low-temperature repository design. However, a full and
   objective comparison of high- and low-temperature repository designs
   should be completed before the DOE selects a final repository design
   concept. Over the last several years, the Board has made several other
   recommendations that could increase confidence in the DOE's projections
   of repository performance. For example, the Board recommended that the
   DOE identify, quantify, and communicate clearly the extent of the
   uncertainty associated with its performance estimates. The Board also
   recommended that the DOE use other lines of evidence and argument to
   supplement the results of its performance srr018vf 2 assessment.
   Moreover, the DOE could strengthen its arguments concerning how
   multiple barriers in its proposed repository system provide
   "defense-in-depth" (or redundancy). Although the DOE has made progress
   in each of these areas, more work is needed. Other actions that might
   be considered if policy-makers approve the Yucca Mountain site include
   systematically integrating new data and analyses produced by ongoing
   scientific and engineering investigations; monitoring repository
   performance before, during, and after waste emplacement; developing a
   strategy for modifying or stopping repository development if
   potentially significant unforeseen circumstances are encountered; and
   continuing external review of the DOE's technical and scientific
   activities. Eliminating all uncertainty associated with estimates of
   repository performance would never be possible at any repository site.
   Policy-makers will decide how much scientific uncertainty is acceptable
   at the time various decisions are made on site recommendation or
   repository development. The Board hopes that the information in this
   letter and its attachments will be useful to policy-makers as they make
   these critical decisions. Sincerely, Signed by all the Board Members
   Attachment 1: Details of the Board's Evaluation Attachment 2:
   Information on the Board srr018vf 3 ATTACHMENT 1 DETAILS OF THE BOARD'S
   EVALUATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY'S TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC WORK
   srr015vf TABLE OF CONTENTS I. Introduction 2 II. The Process the Board
   Used To Evaluate the Department of Energy's Technical and Scientific
   Work 3 III. Framework for the Board's Review of the Department of
   Energy's Work Related to the Natural and Engineered Components of the
   Repository System 5 IV. General Comments on the Department of Energy's
   Total System Performance Assessment 8 V. The Department of Energy's
   Response to Board Priority Areas for Site Recommendation 10 A.
   Meaningful Quantification of Uncertainties and Conservatisms 10 B.
   Progress in Understanding Fundamental Waste Package Corrosion Processes
   12 C. Evaluation and Comparison of the Base-Case Repository Design with
   a Low-Temperature Design 14 D. Development of Multiple Lines of
   Evidence That Are Independent of Performance Assessment 17 VI. Natural
   Barriers 19 srr015vf 1 I. INTRODUCTION For the last two decades, the
   Department of Energy (DOE) has been characterizing a site at Yucca
   Mountain, which is in Nevada, approximately 100 miles northwest of Las
   Vegas, to determine whether it is suitable for developing a geologic
   repository to dispose of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear
   fuel from commercial nuclear reactors and the nation's atomic energy
   defense activities. Since inception in 1989, the U.S. Nuclear Waste
   Technical Review Board (Board) has evaluated the DOE's site
   investigations continuously. (See Attachment 2 for information about
   the Board and its activities.) On January 10, 2002, Secretary of Energy
   Spencer Abraham notified the State of Nevada that he intends to
   recommend to the President that a repository be developed at the Yucca
   Mountain site. With that recommendation, the Secretary will initiate a
   process, established in the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 as amended
   in 1987, that could culminate several years from now in the DOE
   receiving a license from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission to
   construct a repository at Yucca Mountain. In subsequent parts of this
   attachment, the Board provides more-detailed information to support the
   judgments made in the letter report. Section II describes the process
   the Board used to evaluate the DOE's technical and scientific work.
   Section III presents the Board's assessment of the strengths and
   weaknesses of the DOE's investigations and analyses of the natural and
   engineered components of the repository system as well as the DOE's
   assessment of the disruptive-events scenarios (earthquakes and igneous
   activity). Section IV examines how the DOE has implemented its
   performance assessment methodology. Section V considers how the DOE has
   addressed the Board's four priority areas that are essential elements
   of any site recommendation. Section VI looks at the natural barriers of
   the proposed repository system at Yucca Mountain. srr015vf 2 II. THE
   PROCESS THE BOARD USED TO EVALUATE THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY'S TECHNICAL
   AND SCIENTIFIC WORK The Board adopted a three-stage approach for
   reviewing and evaluating the DOE'S Yucca Mountain site-characterization
   work and the DOE's analysis of how a potential repository system for
   disposing of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel might
   perform if developed at that site. First, the Board closely examined
   the DOE's documented investigations and analyses of the following
   natural and engineered components of the repository system and the
   disruptive- events scenarios: 1. Unsaturated-zone flow and seepage into
   waste emplacement drifts 2. In-drift thermal hydrologic conditions 3.
   In-drift physical and chemical environment 4. Waste package degradation
   5. Water diversion by the engineered barrier system 6. Waste form
   degradation 7. Radionuclide transport through the engineered barrier
   system 8. Unsaturated-zone transport of radionuclides 9. Saturated-zone
   flow and transport 10. Radionuclide uptake in the biosphere 11.
   Disruptive-events scenarios (earthquakes and igneous activity) To focus
   its review of the natural and engineered components and the
   disruptive-events scenarios, the Board asked the following questions
   about each of the 11 areas listed above. 1. Do the models used to
   generate input to the total system performance assessment (TSPA) and
   the representations of processes and linkages or relationships among
   processes within TSPA have a sound basis? 2. Have uncertainties and
   conservatisms in the analyses been identified, quantified, and
   described accurately and meaningfully? 3. Have sufficient data and
   observations been gathered using appropriate methodologies? 4. Have
   assumptions and expert judgments, including bounding estimates, been
   documented and justified? 5. Have model predictions been verified or
   tested? 6. Have available data that could challenge prevailing
   interpretations been collected and evaluated? 7. Have alternative
   conceptual models and model abstractions been evaluated, and have the
   bases for accepting preferred models been documented? srr015vf 3 8. Are
   the bases for extrapolating data over long times or distances
   scientifically valid? 9. Can the repository and waste package designs
   be implemented so that the engineered and natural barriers perform as
   expected? 10. To the extent practical, have other lines of evidence,
   derived independently of performance assessments, been used to evaluate
   confidence in model estimates? A summary of the Board's views about the
   major strengths and weaknesses of the DOE's analysis of each natural
   and engineered component and the disruptive-events scenarios are
   presented in Section III of this attachment. Second, the Board
   considered the degree to which the DOE addressed the four priority
   areas that are, in the Board's view, essential elements of any site
   recommendation. The Board established these priorities and communicated
   them to the DOE at a Board meeting held in Amargosa Valley, Nevada, on
   January 30, 2001. The priorities also have been reiterated and referred
   to in subsequent letters and reports. The four priorities are the
   following: * Meaningful quantification of conservatisms and
   uncertainties in the DOE's performance assessments * Progress in
   understanding the underlying fundamental processes involved in
   predicting the rate of waste package corrosion * An evaluation and
   comparison of the base-case repository design and a low-temperature
   design * Development of multiple lines of evidence to support the
   safety case of the proposed repository. The lines of evidence should be
   derived independently of performance assessment and thus not be subject
   to the limitations of performance assessment. At the same time, the
   Board noted that, in addition to these overarching priorities, it had
   made suggestions about other investigations and studies that can
   support, complement, and supplement these four areas. Those
   investigations and studies include research on the unsaturated and
   saturated zones as well as work on making the performance assessments
   more transparent and informative. For each priority area, the Board
   considered how complete the DOE's efforts have been. A summary of the
   Board's views on how well the DOE has addressed the four priorities is
   in Section V of this attachment. The third stage of the Board's
   deliberations involved an extended discussion of how to integrate the
   Board's evaluation of the various elements of the work conducted by the
   DOE. Individual Board members and the Board collectively arrived at an
   overall assessment of the DOE's technical and scientific work using a
   three-point scale: "weak," "moderate," and "strong." srr015vf 4 III.
   FRAMEWORK FOR THE BOARD'S REVIEW OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY'S WORK
   RELATED TO THE NATURAL AND ENGINEERED COMPONENTS OF THE REPOSITORY
   SYSTEM Taking into consideration the questions listed in Section II,
   the Board undertook a review of the DOE investigations and analyses of
   the components of the repository system. The most important questions
   emerging from the review are about the soundness of the models used in
   TSPA and the sufficiency of the database. Other important questions
   include the description of uncertainties and conservatism, the
   justification of assumptions, verification and testing of models, and
   the ability to implement the called-for engineering designs so that
   they perform as expected. A brief description of the Board's judgment
   on the strengths and weaknesses of the DOE's technical work with
   respect to the natural and engineered components of the repository
   system follows. The description is intended to be illustrative but not
   exhaustive. 1. Unsaturated-Zone Flow and Seepage into Waste-Emplacement
   Drifts Strengths include knowledge of the spatial distribution and
   average permeability and matrix porosity of major lithologic units, an
   understanding of the spatially and temporally averaged recharge rates
   over the last 10,000 years, and estimates of climate variability.
   Weaknesses include poor understanding of the hydraulic properties of
   faults and other significant rock-mass discontinuities, seepage rates,
   and the magnitude and effects of rock-mass anisotropy. Transient
   hydrogeologic phenomena, including episodic recharge and resulting
   transient radionuclide transport, have not been analyzed adequately. In
   addition, there are inconsistencies between models, between model
   linkages, and between models and field data. 2. In-Drift
   Thermal-Hydrologic Conditions Strengths include providing estimated
   in-drift thermal-hydrologic conditions for a range of repository
   temperatures. Weaknesses include the lack of a convincing body of
   validating field evidence for models, inconsistencies among the
   in-drift thermal predictions made by different computer models, a lack
   of thermal-hydrologic-mechanical data (especially thermal
   conductivity), and incomplete accounting for the heterogeneity of the
   natural system. srr015vf 5 3. In-Drift Physical and Chemical
   Environment Strengths include knowledge of bulk chemical environments
   for low-temperature conditions and understanding rockfall under ambient
   conditions. Weaknesses include lack of good understanding of local
   chemical environments and moisture conditions on the waste packages and
   of rockfall for high-temperature conditions. 4. Waste Package
   Degradation Strengths include development of a short-term corrosion
   database and substantial experience in manufacturing materials similar
   to Alloy 22. Weaknesses include lack of data on corrosion at high
   temperature under repository- relevant environmental conditions, no
   experience with metals protected by passivity for periods longer than
   100 years, and limited knowledge of the fundamental mechanisms
   underlying long- term corrosion and passive-film behavior. 5. Water
   Diversion by the Engineered Barrier System Strengths include a sound
   theoretical basis for the movement of liquid water through the
   engineered barrier system. Weaknesses include incomplete understanding
   of the effects of specific temperature and humidity conditions on the
   performance of the drip shield, the waste package, and the invert
   ballast. 6. Waste Form Degradation Strengths include understanding of
   radionuclide inventories, in-package chemistry, radionuclide
   solubilities, and use of natural analogues. Weaknesses include
   incomplete understanding of cladding performance, colloid formation and
   dissolution, interactions of radionuclides with corrosion products, and
   the formation of secondary mineral phases. 7. Radionuclide Transport
   Through the Engineered Barrier System Strengths include understanding
   of sorption of radionuclides in the invert, in-package diffusion, and
   diffusion through the invert. srr015vf 6 Weaknesses include incomplete
   understanding of microbial and colloid-facilitated radionuclide
   transport in the engineered barrier system, movement from the waste
   package to the invert, and implementation issues associated with
   fabricating an invert with the desired properties. 8. Unsaturated-Zone
   Transport of Radionuclides Strengths include an understanding of rock
   porosity on a mountain scale. Weaknesses include an incomplete
   understanding of the porosity of lithophysal rock units, radionuclide-
   and lithology-dependent sorption coefficients, heterogeneity of the
   Calico Hills formation, and colloid-facilitated radionuclide transport.
   Moreover, the DOE's modeling of rock-matrix diffusion and radionuclide
   transport in the drift shadow is not well supported by field
   observations at this time. Nor has the DOE convincingly shown that the
   approach to discretization in the numerical models will not
   significantly influence results. 9. Saturated-Zone Flow and Transport
   Strengths include understanding of the spatial distribution and
   large-scale isotropic hydraulic conductivity of most rock units, except
   the alluvium down the hydraulic gradient from Yucca Mountain, for which
   spatial distribution is less well known, and understanding of
   independent geochemical data constraining flow paths and radionuclide
   travel times in the saturated zone. Weaknesses include incomplete
   understanding of fault hydraulic properties, site-scale boundary
   conditions, colloid-facilitated transport, oxidation-reduction
   conditions in the saturated zone, and diffusion in the rock matrix. The
   potential existence of a large hydraulic gradient associated with the
   water table configuration in the northern part of the proposed
   repository block has not been adequately investigated. 10. Radionuclide
   Uptake in the Biosphere Strengths include a generic food-chain database
   associated with postulated human lifestyles and reliance on widely used
   and accepted codes. Weaknesses include poorly known site-specific food
   chains and soil properties. 11. Disruptive-Events Scenario (Earthquakes
   and Igneous Activity) Strengths include a well-developed database and
   understanding of earthquakes and their effects and a thorough analysis
   of volcanic hazard (probability of an event) at Yucca Mountain.
   Weaknesses include incomplete understanding of the consequences of
   intrusive igneous activity. srr015vf 7 IV. GENERAL COMMENTS ON THE
   DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY'S TOTAL SYSTEM PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT Total system
   performance assessment (TSPA) is the principal method for evaluating
   the ability of the proposed Yucca Mountain repository system and its
   engineered and natural components to isolate and contain harmful
   radioactive waste. It is a complicated, integrated mathematical model
   combining many linked models and submodels, most of which are directly
   based on physical and chemical laws and available geologic and
   engineering data. Given that credible alternative models exist and that
   relevant data sets are incomplete, TSPA also must rely on many
   assumptions. Modeling the behavior of this complicated system for
   periods extending out to 10,000 years and beyond is, in many ways,
   unprecedented. There are on the order of 50 models and submodels and
   1,000 parameters directly linked to TSPA, and some uncertainties are
   very large. Parameter uncertainties typically are caused by limited
   data sets and insufficient knowledge of inherent variability. Model, or
   conceptual, uncertainty is caused by insufficient knowledge of the
   processes involved. Addressing the latter type of uncertainty is both
   especially difficult and especially important. There is no fully
   satisfactory way of validating the results of TSPA, given the time
   periods needed to isolate radioactive waste safely. In addition, the
   linkage between many of the components and parameters is so complex
   that often the only way to judge the effect on calculated results of
   changing a parameter or a submodel is through computational sensitivity
   tests. Although there is no problem in generating performance estimates
   (how well the repository system isolates and contains radioactive
   waste), significant efforts are needed to develop confidence in the
   estimates and in the overall design and safety of the repository.
   Confidence in TSPA and its results can be increased by recognizing and
   accounting for the uncertainties present and increasing the basic
   understanding of the repository system and its components. As noted in
   the December 2001 joint international peer review of the Yucca Mountain
   TSPA, there is an emerging international consensus that for increasing
   confidence, understanding should be viewed as being of comparable
   importance to that of showing numerical compliance with regulatory
   criteria. When the DOE's technical and scientific work is taken as a
   whole, the Board's view is that the technical basis for the DOE's
   repository performance estimates is weak to moderate at this time.
   Consequently, although at this point no individual technical or
   scientific factors have been identified that would automatically
   disqualify the Yucca Mountain site, the Board has limited confidence in
   current performance estimates generated by TSPA. As discussed in
   Section III of this attachment, the Board's assessment is mainly due to
   its evaluation of the basis for the models used in TSPA and of the
   sufficiency of the database. srr015vf 8 This is not to say that the DOE
   has not made an effort to collect the needed data and develop
   confidence in the needed models. The DOE has, in general, carried out
   an impressive, wide-ranging program aimed at understanding Yucca
   Mountain and the proposed repository. However, the difficulty
   associated with achieving that understanding has been underestimated.
   In all likelihood, important uncertainties always will remain. As the
   Board has stated in the past, TSPA by itself may never be able to show
   repository safety with confidence. Other means of doing so, such as
   expanded use of natural and engineering analogues and demonstration of
   multiple barriers and defense-in-depth, are discussed below in Section
   V.D of this attachment. srr015vf 9 V. THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY'S
   RESPONSE TO THE BOARD'S PRIORITY AREAS FOR SITE RECOMMENDATION A.
   MEANINGFUL QUANTIFICATION OF UNCERTAINTY AND CONSERVATISMS In January
   2001, the Board specified "meaningful quantification of conservatisms
   and uncertainties in the DOE's performance assessments" as one of its
   four priority areas and as an essential element of any DOE site
   recommendation. Much has been learned about the Yucca Mountain site
   since comprehensive site characterization began about a decade ago.
   However, for many reasons, including the complexity of the site, the
   first-of-a-kind nature of the project in many respects, and the very
   long periods of time under consideration, uncertainties remain about
   components of the engineered and natural barriers that would be part of
   a Yucca Mountain repository system. One approach to mitigating some of
   the effects of uncertainty is to use conservative (or bounding) models
   and assumptions. Conservative models and assumptions are those whose
   use, in theory, would overestimate the risk to the public and provide a
   margin of safety. Conservative models and assumptions, however, provide
   unrealistic estimates of risk, and if used inconsistently and along
   with realistic and optimistic models and assumptions, they leave
   unclear the true level of conservatism and risk in calculated
   performance estimates. Resolving all uncertainty is neither necessary
   nor possible. However, uncertainties about the performance of the
   components of the repository system that are relied on to isolate waste
   are very important, and information on the extent of uncertainty and
   assumed conservatism associated with the performance of those
   components may be important to policy makers, the technical community,
   and the public. For this reason, the Board has encouraged the DOE to
   quantify levels of uncertainty and conservatism associated with its
   performance assessments so that decision-makers will have a basis for
   weighing the extent of uncertainty and conservatism against other
   factors when making decisions on the Yucca Mountain site. For the last
   year or so, the DOE has been engaged in an intensive and comprehensive
   effort to quantify the uncertainty and the conservatisms in the DOE's
   performance estimates. Although the DOE's efforts in this area are
   incomplete, the Board believes that real and important progress has
   been made. A primary product of this effort is Supplemental Science and
   Performance Analyses (SSPA), issued in July 2001. The Board found that
   SSPA is a considerable improvement over Total System Performance
   Assessment for the Site Recommendation, issued in December 2000.
   Improvement is defined here as reflecting a more accurate
   representation of reality, the state of knowledge, and uncertainties.
   The improvement was most substantial in the portrayal of the engineered
   components of the repository system and less so for the natural barrier
   system. Problematic areas still remain, some exhibiting substantial
   instability and changing substantially with each iteration of TSPA.
   Another important example of this progress is a recently issued
   (November 2001) contractor report, Uncertainty Analysis and Strategy.
   Sound suggestions are proposed for future work on treating and
   communicating uncertainty. They include concentrating on realistic
   srr015vf 10 models and their full range of uncertainty rather than on
   extreme (bounding) models; quantifying uncertainties and providing the
   technical basis for all uncertainty assessments; addressing the
   difficult issue of conceptual uncertainty; using consistent definitions
   of "bounds" and "conservatism," if they have to be invoked; and
   defining ways to communicate uncertainty effectively to
   decision-makers. The DOE needs to implement these suggestions,
   continuing the essential work of identifying, quantifying, and
   communicating uncertainty. srr015vf 11 B. PROGRESS IN UNDERSTANDING
   FUNDAMENTAL WASTE PACKAGE CORROSION PROCESSES In January 2001, the
   Board specified "progress in understanding the underlying fundamental
   processes involved in predicting the rate of waste package corrosion"
   as one of its four priority areas and as an essential element of any
   DOE site recommendation. The DOE's estimates of repository performance
   currently rely heavily on engineered components of the repository
   system, making corrosion of the waste package very important. The
   primary corrosion barrier in the proposed package for containing spent
   nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste at Yucca Mountain is a
   2-centimeter-thick shell of Alloy 22. Alloy 22 is a metal mixture
   containing nickel, chromium, molybdenum, and tungsten. Normally, Alloy
   22 rapidly develops an ultrathin but very protective film-known as the
   "passive layer"-that dramatically retards corrosion of the metal. The
   film is essential to the corrosion resistance of the metal. The DOE's
   models estimate that corrosion will not penetrate Alloy 22 waste
   packages for at least 10,000 years, and perhaps for longer than a
   million years. However, experience with Alloy 22 and comparable alloys
   spans only several decades, and experience with alloys that rely on
   passive films for corrosion resistance spans only about a century.
   Although a few natural or man-made materials have been identified that
   might provide insights into the long-term passivity of metals, as yet
   none has been confirmed as a suitable analogue. Thus, this type of
   corrosion resistance over many thousands of years can be extrapolated
   only by using theories and assumptions. However, the theoretical basis
   for making such long-term extrapolations of corrosion resistance for
   Alloy 22 is still very limited. In addition, data on aqueous corrosion
   for Alloy 22 above about 120º C under conditions relevant to Yucca
   Mountain are essentially nonexistent, creating a serious data gap.
   Consequently, there is great uncertainty about the performance of Alloy
   22 under high-temperature conditions. Because of this uncertainty, it
   is difficult to be confident that waste packages would last for at
   least 10,000 years for repository designs that have high temperatures.
   Uncertainty about waste package performance lessens, however, with
   lower repository temperatures, because more data are available and
   corrosion severity generally decreases as temperatures decrease. On the
   basis of the information developed by the project (and others), Board
   members believe that claims of minimum waste package durability of a
   few thousand years to a few tens of thousands of years are not out of
   the question under relatively mild and less uncertain in-drift
   conditions. These beliefs are based on the suppositions that supporting
   research will be continued to fill in data gaps and to rule out
   unexpected modes of failure and that no major "surprises" are found.
   Identifying and exploring the relevant theories and assumptions and,
   just as important, identifying and exploring what could go wrong,
   particularly at times beyond the current experience base, have been
   considered issues of paramount importance by the Board for many years.
   srr015vf 12 Over the last 16 months, the DOE has made significant
   progress in understanding fundamental corrosion processes. For example,
   the DOE retained outside consultants to develop thermodynamic models of
   the stability of Alloy 22 passive films and to develop models of how
   defects in Alloy 22 passive films could form, grow, or coalesce and
   affect corrosion behavior. The DOE also established a panel of experts
   from outside the project to review the project's corrosion and
   metal-selection processes. Some of the issues for the panel were the
   long-term performance of passive layers and how localized modes of
   corrosion could develop on metals such as Alloy 22. The Board has two
   priorities for future corrosion work that might be conducted if the
   Yucca Mountain site is approved. First, to improve the DOE's ability to
   make reasonable long- term extrapolations, the Board believes that work
   on fundamental corrosion processes affecting the long-term performance
   of Alloy 22 should continue well beyond any positive decision on site
   recommendation. Second, to supplement estimates of corrosion rates
   developed from short-term observations and present theory, the DOE
   should continue its study of candidate analogues (e.g., some metallic
   components of the rock josephinite and metallic meteorites) and their
   environments and should try to identify other potential archeological
   analogues, natural analogues, or artifacts that might have been
   protected for very long periods by passive layers. Besides improving
   understanding of fundamental waste package corrosion processes, many
   investigations of other aspects of waste package degradation are
   continuing. They include work to obtain short-term corrosion data at
   repository-relevant conditions and to fill in data gaps. They also
   include investigations of stress-corrosion cracking, work to determine
   and mitigate residual stresses at or near waste package welds,
   selecting specific manufacturing methods for the waste package and
   demonstrating them at full size, demonstrating methods for inspecting
   the quality of waste package manufacturing, and work to minimize
   manufacturing defects and premature failures. Continued efforts in
   these areas will be necessary if the site is approved. srr015vf 13 C.
   EVALUATION AND COMPARISON OF THE BASE-CASE REPOSITORY DESIGN WITH A
   LOW-TEMPERATURE DESIGN In January 2001, the Board specified "an
   evaluation and a comparison of the base-case repository design with a
   low-temperature design" as one of its four priority areas and as an
   essential element of any DOE site recommendation. Understanding how the
   design of the repository affects tunnel environments is essential for
   evaluating long-term repository performance. In its August 2000 letter
   responding to questions from Congressman Joe Barton, the Board stated
   that the technical basis for the DOE's projections of repository
   performance had critical weaknesses, in part because of large
   uncertainties associated with the DOE's base-case (high-temperature)
   repository design. This was followed, in January 2001, by the Board's
   specification of an evaluation and a comparison of the base-case
   repository design with a low-temperature design as a priority. Although
   the DOE has performed some studies of hypothetical design concepts, a
   full evaluation and comparison of the base-case (high-temperature) and
   low-temperature designs as specified has not been done and is still
   needed. The Board believes that a low-temperature repository
   design-where waste package surface temperatures would never exceed
   about 85º C-could offer significant advantages over a high-temperature
   design. Potential advantages of a low-temperature design include, as
   described below, (1) improving waste package performance by decreasing
   corrosion severity over the first 10,000 years after repository
   closure; (2) eliminating important uncertainties associated with
   moisture conditions on waste-package surfaces and waste-package
   corrosion during the 1,000 to 2,000 years immediately following
   repository closure, when waste package surface temperatures in the
   DOE's base-case design would be above boiling and could peak at 165º C
   (pure water boils at ~96º C at the elevation of Yucca Mountain); and
   (3) reducing important uncertainties associated with hydrologic,
   mechanical, and chemical processes-so called "coupled" processes that
   act in combination with each other. 1. Lower Corrosion Severity
   Experience as well as fundamental principles of chemical kinetics
   indicates that corrosion severity generally decreases with decreasing
   temperature if other environmental conditions are constant. Because
   waste package surface temperatures in a low-temperature repository
   could be kept below 85º C, corrosion severity should be lower than in a
   higher-temperature case where liquid water could still be in contact
   with the metal. 2. Corrosion Uncertainties at High Temperatures Alloy
   22, the metal composing the outer shell of the waste package, should
   not corrode significantly unless aqueous conditions (i.e., liquid
   water) are present on the waste package surface. Recent DOE research
   and analyses have shown that, primarily because of deliquescence of
   certain very hygroscopic salts, liquid water could be present on waste
   package surfaces up to the peak temperature of 165º C. Although the DOE
   has extensive corrosion data on repository-relevant aqueous conditions
   at temperatures at or srr015vf 14 below 90º C, very few aqueous
   corrosion data exist for temperatures between 90º and 120º C at
   repository-relevant conditions, and essentially no such data exist for
   temperatures above 120º C. Besides lacking high-temperature corrosion
   data, the DOE lacks data on how the aqueous chemical environments on
   waste package surfaces could evolve for above- boiling conditions,
   particularly for conditions between 120º C and 165º C. A special
   concern is the potential evolution of aqueous environments having
   chloride anion concentrations much in excess of "beneficial anion"
   (e.g., carbonate, nitrate, sulfate) concentrations, because indications
   are that corrosion rates could be unacceptably high under such
   conditions. The Board considers these uncertainties a critical
   technical weakness that must be addressed if the DOE goes forward with
   a high-temperature design. 3. Coupled Processes and Associated
   Uncertainties In its base-case (high-temperature) repository design,
   the DOE believes that water will vaporize (boil) and be driven away
   from emplacement tunnels, condense, and drain harmlessly through the
   pillars between the tunnels. However, observations of field heater
   tests (i.e., the drift-scale test and the large-block test) seem to
   indicate that vaporized water could, under certain circumstances,
   condense above the tunnels and "reflux," or drain, directly into the
   tunnels through existing fractures. Furthermore, uneven heating of
   tunnels may create localized zones of condensation. As a result, cooler
   waste packages could be exposed to larger amounts of water. Drip
   shields (if used) could trap and condense water vapor, possibly
   exposing some waste packages to more water. Finally, fluctuating
   temperature and barometric pressure changes at the site may cause
   significant variations in temperature and relative humidity in the
   emplacement tunnels, which in turn could lead to localized zones of
   condensation that could migrate along the network of repository
   tunnels. Tunnel walls will be compressed because of thermal expansion
   as tunnels heat up after waste emplacement. As tunnel temperatures
   decrease after a few hundred years, the rock matrix will contract,
   fractures will open wider, and rockfall from tunnel ceilings and
   seepage into tunnels could increase. Therefore, the Board believes that
   such spatially variable thermal-mechanical processes and their
   relationship to seepage into repository tunnels must be addressed
   further, particularly for high-temperature conditions. Because the DOE
   has not determined the factors controlling refluxing or its likelihood,
   the Board considers this and other thermal-hydrologic unknowns related
   to tunnel seepage and heat-induced migration of water in and around
   repository tunnels in Yucca Mountain significant weaknesses. Over the
   last 2 years, the DOE has produced several conceptual studies clearly
   demonstrating that low-temperature repository designs are feasible. The
   Board believes that the technical basis for operating at
   low-temperatures may be stronger than the technical basis for srr015vf
   15 operating at high temperatures because of less uncertainty and more
   corrosion data available over a range of low-temperature conditions.
   The Board believes that the DOE will be in a stronger position to
   select a design concept for Yucca Mountain after preparing a low-
   temperature design and completing a full and objective evaluation and
   comparison of high- and low-temperature repository designs that
   identify and quantify the advantages and disadvantages of both.
   Strengthening the technical bases for repository design selection will
   require an improved understanding of the relationships among repository
   design and operation, the tunnel conditions thus created, and long-term
   waste package corrosion. srr015vf 16 D. DEVELOPMENT OF MULTIPLE LINES
   OF EVIDENCE THAT ARE INDEPENDENT OF PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT In January
   2001, the Board specified "development of multiple lines of evidence to
   support the safety case of the proposed repository" as one of its four
   priority areas and as an essential element of any DOE site
   recommendation. The DOE uses a comprehensive integrated performance
   assessment model, Total System Performance Assessment (TSPA), to
   project repository performance. Using models in demonstrations of
   compliance for thousands of years is, in large part, unprecedented but
   unavoidable, given the unique circumstances of siting a repository for
   high-level nuclear waste. However, as discussed in Section IV,
   uncertainty associated with performance estimates obtained from TSPA
   may be large and difficult to address. For that reason, the Board has
   recommended over the years that the DOE supplement the results of TSPA
   with other lines of evidence derived independently of TSPA. This
   recommendation is consistent with an emerging international consensus
   that other lines of reasoning can increase confidence in the
   conclusions reached by performance assessment. One potentially
   important line of evidence involves using natural and engineered
   analogues to obtain insights into the long-term or large-scale behavior
   of key repository processes and components that cannot be obtained from
   field and laboratory investigations. The DOE has increased its use of
   analogues over the last 3 years. In its latest reports, the DOE has
   relied on analogues for developing parameter values and ranges of
   parameter values that are incorporated directly in the process models
   that make up TSPA, for increasing confidence that appropriate values
   were chosen by some other means, and for increasing confidence in the
   soundness of a model. The DOE has not made significant use of analogues
   to develop insights into the performance of key components and
   subsystems. On the basis of what has been accomplished to date, the
   Board believes that the DOE's efforts in this area are incomplete but
   are heading in the right direction. Although not strictly a "line of
   evidence," demonstrations of defense-in-depth also can increase
   confidence in projections of repository performance. According to the
   DOE, "defense- in-depth" means that the safety of a repository does not
   depend on the performance of any single barrier. Repository Safety
   Strategy, Revision 4, published in 2000 by TRW, then the DOE's main
   contractor on the Yucca Mountain Project, contained a series of
   "one-off" analyses that examined the effect on repository performance
   of reducing the effectiveness or having failure of selected barriers.
   In all cases, except for the waste package, the failure of a single
   barrier did not lead to doses higher than permitted under the relevant
   regulations. In addition, work undertaken as part of Supplemental
   Science and Performance Analyses, published in 2001 by the DOE,
   suggests that previously underemphasized barriers could provide an
   important degree of defense- in-depth. The most notable example of this
   is the role potentially played by limited radionuclide solubility.
   srr015vf 17 The DOE, however, never has carried out the systematic
   "one-on" analyses recommended by the Board over the last 2 years. Those
   analyses involve the incremental addition of one barrier at a time to
   the repository system to understand better the factors that influence
   repository performance. Adding a barrier needs to be defined in a
   consistent manner, using the latest version of TSPA. The Board believes
   that such an evaluation could improve the DOE's understanding of the
   effectiveness of individual barriers considerably and thus its
   demonstration of defense-in-depth. srr015vf 18 VI. NATURAL BARRIERS In
   January 2001, the Board specified four priority areas as essential
   elements of any DOE site recommendation. In addition to these
   overarching priorities, the Board made a number of suggestions about
   other investigations and studies that can support, complement, and
   supplement the four areas. Those investigations and studies include
   research on the unsaturated and saturated zones as well as work to make
   the performance assessments more transparent and informative. As
   proposed, the potential repository for spent nuclear fuel and
   high-level radioactive waste at Yucca Mountain is a system composed of
   natural and engineered barriers. This section addresses the natural
   hydrogeologic barriers, in particular the unsaturated zone and the
   saturated zone. Evaluating the technical basis of the DOE's predictions
   requires consideration of the many uncertainties inherent in the
   complex hydrogeologic system, consideration of multiple lines of
   evidence from field observations and laboratory analyses, consideration
   of the theoretical basis underlying the predictions, consideration of
   the predictions themselves, and consideration of evidence from similar
   analogue sites. The Board's confidence in the DOE's analysis of the
   ability of the natural hydrogeologic systems of Yucca Mountain to
   isolate radioactive waste from the accessible environment is reduced by
   existing uncertainties in several areas. Those uncertainties arise
   partly because the predictions of fluid flow and radionuclide transport
   in unsaturated and saturated fractured rocks is at the leading edge of
   the science of hydrogeology. However, those uncertainties are mitigated
   in part by observations of the processes of fluid flow and solute
   transport that have been occurring over geologic time at and around
   Yucca Mountain. For arriving at more realistic and technically
   defensible predictions of fluid flow and radionuclide transport for the
   range of radionuclides that DOE contemplates emplacing at Yucca
   Mountain, it is very important that DOE continue investigating these
   uncertainties. The confidence that the Board has in the DOE's analyses
   could be substantially enhanced with a concerted research effort over
   the next few years. One indirect indicator of the extent to which the
   unsaturated and saturated zones at Yucca Mountain could isolate
   radioactive waste is "travel time." Travel time is the time required
   for solutes in groundwater to be transported from one point to another.
   As used here, those solutes are either radionuclides released from a
   potential Yucca Mountain repository or naturally occurring isotopes,
   such as radiocarbon. The hydrogeologic flow system is composed of both
   the unsaturated zone above the water table and the saturated zone below
   the water table. In the saturated zone near Yucca Mountain, water flow
   is down the hydraulic gradient, generally southward. Continued
   investigation into uncertainties, whether resulting in shorter or
   longer predicted travel times, can lead to more realistic and
   technically defensible predictions. Uncertainties that may likely
   result in longer travel times include increased sorptivity and reduced
   solubility of radionuclides in contact with different rocks and in
   water with different oxidation states, possible retardation of
   radionuclide transport as a result of secondary mineralization, and
   increased matrix diffusion. The oxidation state of water in the
   saturated zone, and possibly in some areas of the unsaturated zone
   influenced by microbial activity, may either shorten or substantially
   lengthen travel times. Shorter travel times may result from the
   srr015vf 19 possible presence of isolated zones of relatively rapid
   flow and transport in the volcanic rocks in the saturated zone; from
   increased hydraulic conductivity or reduced porosity of faults in the
   unsaturated and saturated zones; and from potential rapid
   colloid-facilitated transport of plutonium and other radionuclides of
   similar characteristics in the saturated zone and, to a lesser extent,
   in the unsaturated zone. Using multiple lines of evidence and
   incorporating information from relevant analogues can enhance the basis
   for evaluating the DOE's predictions. Geochemical data from Yucca
   Mountain and the surrounding region are of particular value, because
   the data often reflect processes that have operated over geologic time.
   For example, corrected radiocarbon ages of groundwater in the saturated
   zone approximately 20 kilometers south of Yucca Mountain range from
   about 6,000 to about 10,000 years, with the age within the range
   depending on assumptions made about the sources of carbon. Radiocarbon
   groundwater ages are generally interpreted by hydrogeologists to
   represent the average time that the groundwater has been in the flow
   field. However, the radiocarbon age is an average and, as such, does
   not reflect the likely range of travel times of contaminants spread out
   in a plume because of natural processes and natural variability of the
   hydrogeologic environment, as discussed in the following paragraph. In
   Technical Update Impact Letter Report (Appendix G, November 2001), the
   DOE calculated travel times from the potential repository horizon to a
   hypothetical boundary in the saturated zone 18 km south of Yucca
   Mountain. The travel times are for an "expected" or "realistic" case of
   transport of conservative radionuclides and include realistic values
   for matrix diffusion. As used here, "conservative" means the
   radionuclides neither accelerated nor retarded by hydrogeochemical
   interactions. For an instantaneous release of a given mass of
   conservative radionuclides from the potential repository horizon at
   Yucca Mountain, the calculations indicate the following range: 10
   percent of that mass would arrive at that boundary in about 2,000
   years, and 90 percent of that mass would be transported that distance
   by about 30,000 years. The Board believes that these DOE travel-time
   estimates are technically credible. Lines of evidence must be applied
   appropriately. Corrected radiocarbon ages pertain to conservative
   radionuclides; travel times for nonconservative radionuclides cannot be
   evaluated solely on the basis of corrected radiocarbon ages. For
   example, there is evidence from the Nevada Test Site that elevated
   concentrations of plutonium in groundwater downgradient of the
   locations of underground nuclear bomb tests are the result of rapid
   transport facilitated by extremely small particles known as "colloids."
   This is an example of nonconservative transport. The DOE has not
   published updated calculations of radiological doses based on the
   recent travel time estimates in Technical Update Impact Letter Report
   (November 2001). Dose calculations require consideration of both
   conservative and nonconservative radionuclides in the potential
   repository inventory and of their particular health effects. srr015vf
   20 ATTACHMENT 2 INFORMATION ON THE U.S. NUCLEAR WASTE TECHNICAL REVIEW
   BOARD srr016vf INFORMATION ON THE U.S. NUCLEAR WASTE TECHNICAL REVIEW
   BOARD The U.S. Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board was established as
   an independent agency of the federal government on December 22, 1987,
   in the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act (NWPAA). The Board is
   charged with evaluating the technical and scientific validity of
   activities undertaken by the Secretary of Energy, including the
   following: * site characterization activities * activities related to
   packaging and transporting high-level radioactive waste and spent
   nuclear fuel. The Board was given broad latitude to review activities
   undertaken by the Secretary of Energy in implementing the Nuclear Waste
   Policy Act. However, the Board was not given authority to require the
   Department of Energy (DOE) to implement the Board's recommendations.
   According to the legislative history, Congress intended that the Board
   provide ongoing advice to the DOE so that the Board's recommendations
   on technical and scientific issues could be considered by the DOE
   before decisions are made. The Board has performed this role since its
   inception in 1989, making recommendations intended to improve the
   program. In addition, as provided by law, the Board reports its
   findings and recommendations at least two times each year to Congress
   and the Secretary of Energy. The NWPAA authorized a Board of 11 members
   who serve on a part-time basis, are eminent in a field of science or
   engineering, and are selected solely on the basis of distinguished
   service. The law stipulates that the Board shall represent a broad
   range of scientific and engineering disciplines, including
   environmental sciences, that are relevant to nuclear waste management.
   Board members are appointed by the President from a list of candidates
   recommended by the National Academy of Sciences. The first members were
   appointed to the Board on January 18, 1989. The names and affiliations
   of the current 11 Board members are listed below. * Jared L. Cohon,
   Ph.D., became Board chairman on January 17, 1997. He is president of
   Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. His areas of
   expertise include environmental and water resource systems analysis. *
   John W. Arendt, P.E., is senior consultant and founder of John W.
   Arendt Associates, Inc. His areas of expertise are nuclear materials
   facilities, quality assurance and control, and inspection. * Daniel B.
   Bullen, Ph.D., is associate professor of mechanical engineering,
   Department of Mechanical Engineering, at Iowa State University. His
   areas of expertise include performance assessment modeling and
   materials science. srr016vf 1 * Norman L. Christensen, Jr., Ph.D., is
   professor of ecology and former dean of the Nicholas School of the
   Environment at Duke University in North Carolina. His areas of
   expertise include biology, ecology, and ecosystem management. * Paul P.
   Craig, Ph.D., is professor emeritus of engineering at the University of
   California, Davis, and is a member of the university's Graduate Group
   in Ecology. His areas of expertise include energy policy issues
   associated with global environmental change. * Debra S. Knopman, Ph.D.,
   is associate director, RAND Science and Technology, in Arlington,
   Virginia. Her areas of expertise include hydrology, environmental and
   natural resources policy, systems analysis, and public administration.
   * Priscilla P. Nelson, Ph.D., is director, Division of Civil and
   Mechanical Systems, Directorate for Engineering, at the National
   Science Foundation. Her areas of expertise include rock engineering and
   underground construction. * Richard R. Parizek, Ph.D., is professor of
   geology and geoenvironmental engineering at The Pennsylvania State
   University and president of Richard R. Parizek and Associates,
   consulting hydrogeologists and environmental geologists. His areas of
   expertise include hydrogeology and environmental geology. * Donald D.
   Runnells, Ph.D., is professor emeritus in the Department of Geological
   Sciences at the University of Colorado. He also is a technical
   consultant to Shepherd Miller, Inc., environmental and engineering
   consultants. His areas of expertise include geochemistry,
   hydrochemistry, and mineral deposits. * Alberto A. Sagüés, Ph.D., is
   Distinguished University Professor in the Department of Civil and
   Environmental Engineering at the University of South Florida. His areas
   of expertise include corrosion and materials engineering, physical
   metallurgy, and scientific instrumentation. * Jeffrey J. Wong, Ph.D.,
   is deputy director for Science, Pollution Prevention and Technology;
   Department of Toxic Substances Control, California Environmental
   Protection Agency. His areas of expertise include risk assessment,
   toxicology, and hazardous materials management. The full Board and its
   five subpanels sponsor meetings and technical exchanges with program
   participants and interested parties, including representatives of the
   DOE and its contractors, the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the
   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Geological Survey, the
   U.S. Department of Transportation, the State of Nevada, affected units
   of local governments, Native American tribes, nuclear utilities,
   environmental groups, state utility regulators, and members of the
   public. In addition, field trips provide essential insights into the
   geologic, hydrologic, and geochemical processes that could affect Yucca
   Mountain. Since 1989, the full Board or groups of Board members have
   made several dozen visits to the Yucca Mountain site and surrounding
   regions. Board members and staff also have gained valuable insights
   from visiting other countries to learn about their nuclear waste
   disposal programs. Finally, individual Board members or small groups of
   members have toured laboratory facilities of the National Laboratories
   and DOE contractors. srr016vf 2 Board and panel meetings are open to
   the public and are announced in the Federal Register 4 to 6 weeks
   before each meeting. Press releases also are issued on all public
   meetings. To facilitate access for program participants and the public,
   the Board holds most of its meetings in Nevada. Public comment sessions
   are included on all meeting agendas. The Board's reports, meeting
   transcripts, correspondence, congressional testimony, and all published
   documents are available on the Board's Web site at www.nwtrb.gov.
   srr016vf 3
