http://www.ma.doe.gov/security.htm

   DOE Seal - link to DOE HOME

                        PRIVACY AND SECURITY NOTICES
   MA Logo - link to MA HOME


   Thank you for visiting our web site. We respect the need to protect
   your privacy. We collect no personal information about you when you
   visit our site unless you choose to provide that information to us
   under specific instances, such as in an e-mail.
   What you should know about visiting our web site:
     * Information we collect and store automatically
     * Sending us your personal or confidential information
     * Security notice
     * General disclaimer
     * Links to other sites
     * Feedback

   Information we collect and store automatically

   We collect and store the following information automatically:
     * Internet Protocol (IP) address of the domain from which you access
       the Internet (e.g., 123.456.789.012), whether yours individually or
       provided as a proxy by your Internet Service Provider (ISP).
     * Date and time you accessed our site.
     * Pages you visit.
     * Internet address of the web site from which you came to our site.
     * The browser name and version you are using.

   We use summary statistics to help us make our site more useful, such as
   assessing what information is of most and least interest to visitors,
   and for other purposes such as determining the site's technical design
   specifications and identifying system performance or problem areas.

   Parts of our site may use cookies to improve your experience. A cookie
   contains information that is either stored in your computer’s memory
   (session cookie), or in a file on your computer’s hard disk (persistent
   cookie). Session cookies are automatically removed when you quit your
   browser. Persistent cookies will have an expiration date after which
   time they will no longer be valid. It is our policy to notify you and
   obtain your approval before a cookie is stored on your computer, to
   explain what the cookie collects, and how the information is used. If
   you encounter a cookie that does not terminate upon ending a session at
   a ma.doe.gov, hr.doe.gov, or pr.doe.gov web site — without your
   approving of its use and there is no explanation or the explanation is
   not clear or reasonable — please let us know.

   For additional information about cookie usage on Federal web sites,
   please visit the following:
     * Department of Energy's computer Incident Advisory Capability (CIAC)
       Bulletin I-034: Internet Cookies
     * OMB Memorandum 99-18 "Privacy Policies on Federal Web Sites dated
       June 2, 1999

   Top of Page
   Sending us personal or confidential information

   You may choose to provide us with personal information by sending us an
   e-mail containing your comments or questions.   We use this information
   to:
     * Improve our service to you.
     * Respond to your message.
     * Help gather the requested information.

   We do not create individual profiles with the information you provide.
   We do not collect information for commercial marketing. We do not share
   our e-mail with any outside organizations except for authorized law
   enforcement investigations.  However, the material you submit may be
   seen by various people or collected in a repository.  For example:
     * We may enter the information you send into an electronic database.
     * We may forward it to other Department of Energy employees who may
       be better able to help you.

   Top of Page
   Security notice

   This web site is part of a Federal computer system used to accomplish
   Federal functions. The Department of Energy monitors this web site for
   security purposes to ensure it remains available to all users and to
   protect information in the system. By accessing this web site, you are
   expressly consenting to these monitoring activities.

   Unauthorized attempts to defeat or circumvent security features, to use
   the systems for other than intended purposes, to deny service to
   authorized users, to access, obtain, alter, damage, or destroy
   information, or otherwise to interfere with the system or its operation
   are prohibited. Evidence of such acts may be disclosed to law
   enforcement authorities and result in criminal prosecution under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-474) and the National
   Information Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-294),
   (18 U.S.C. 1030), or other applicable criminal laws.

   Top of Page
   General disclaimer

   WITH RESPECT TO INFORMATION FROM THIS SERVER, NEITHER THE UNITED STATES
   GOVERNMENT NOR BECHTEL BWXT IDAHO, LLC (BBWI) NOR ANY OF THEIR
   EMPLOYEES, MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
   ASSUMES ANY LEGAL LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ACCURACY,
   COMPLETENESS, OR USEFULNESS OF ANY SUCH INFORMATION, OR OF ANY
   APPARATUS, PRODUCT, OR PROCESS DISCLOSED, OR REPRESENTS THAT ITS USE
   WOULD NOT INFRINGE PRIVATELY OWNED RIGHTS. Reference to any specific
   commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark,
   manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily constitute or imply its
   endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States
   Government or BBWI. The views and opinions of authors expressed on this
   web site do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States
   Government or any agency and shall not be used for advertising or
   product endorsement purposes.

   Top of Page
   Links to other sites

   This web site has links to many other Federal agencies. In a few cases
   we link to private organizations. Once you link to another site, you
   are subject to the privacy policy of the new site.

   Top of Page
   Feedback

   We welcome your feedback at any time.

   Top of Page

    Privacy & Security Notices  | Contact Webmaster |  MA Home | DOE Home
