http://www.tfhrc.gov/focus/focus.htm

   Skip Repetitive Links. Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center.
   Menu

   menu bar.

     Focus

     "Accelerating Infrastructure Innovations"

     Cover of Focus Newswletter. Focus, which is published monthly by the
     U.S. Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Administration
     (FHWA), has expanded its scope and is now covering the
     implementation of innovative technologies in all areas of
     infrastructure. This includes bridge technology, pavement
     technology, asset management, program administration, winter
     maintenance, and work zone safety. In the past, the mission of Focus
     was to report on the products of the Strategic Highway Research
     Program (SHRP). Now, with the American Association of State Highway
     and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) Task Force on SHRP
     Implementation officially ending in the fall of 2000, Focus has
     officially become the primary communications vehicle for FHWA's
     infrastructure research and technology program.

     Its primary mission is twofold (1) to serve the providers of highway
     infrastructure with innovations and support to improve the quality,
     safety, and service of our roads and bridges; and (2) to help
     promote and market programs and projects of the various offices of
     FHWA's Infrastructure Core Business Unit (CBU).

     As part of this overall strategy of promoting the goals of the
     Infrastructure CBU, Focus will cover infrastructure-related
     developments in the larger highway community, including State
     highway agencies, industry, Transportation Research Board, AASHTO,
     local governments, regional Superpave Centers, international
     organizations, and academia.

     Focus, with its recent redesigned format, targets its articles to an
     audience that wants to know primarily about technologies and
     products that they can use, rather than reading articles about
     policies or bureaucratic procedures.
     .............................
     Focus (ISSN 1060-6637) is published monthly by FHWA. The United
     States Government does not endorse products or manufacturers. Trade
     or manufacturers' names appear herein solely because they are
     considered essential to the object of the article. Superpave is a
     registered trademark of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). This
     publication is neither endorsed nor sponsored by NAS.




   More Information.

   Current Issue
   Read the latest issue of Focus.
   ...................

   Past Issues
   Looking for an older article? Check in the Focus archives.
   ...................

   Editorial Guidelines
   Provides information on
   writing and submitting
   articles for Focus.
   .................

   Ordering Information
   If you would like to be added to the mailing list for the printed
   version of Focus, please send your name, address, and phone & fax
   numbers to:
   lgpope@harrington-hughes.com
   ...................

      What's New | About TFHRC | Our Products | Our Research | Support
                                  Services
    Library | Periodicals | Other Resources | Site Map | Search | Privacy
                              Notice | Feedback
                        TFHRC Home | FHWA | U.S. DOT

                    http://www.tfhrc.gov/focus/focus.htm
