http://www.dfg.ca.gov/fg_comm/index.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




    Fish and Game Commission Home Page
    Meeting Schedule
    New and Proposed Regulations
    Regulations
    Statement Regarding Implementation of the Marine Life Management Act
    and the Marine Life Protection Act
    Online Guide to the Marine Life Management Act
    Strategic Plan
    Commission Policies
    News
    Contact Information
    Department of Fish and Game

                         Fish and Game Commission Logo



                     California Fish and Game Commission
                              1416 Ninth Street
                        Sacramento, California 95814

                               (916) 653-4899

                            E-mail the Commission



   __________ [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)______
   (*)  My CA   Search DFG
   About the Commission

                           Mr. Mike Chrisman, President
                         Mr. Sam Schuchat, Vice President
                            Mr. Michael Flores, Member
                                  vacant, Member
                                 & vacant, Member


   Many Californians are not fully aware of the identity, function or
   responsibilities of the California Fish and Game Commission, and
   consider it synonymous with the California Department of Fish and Game.
   Actually, the Commission is a separate entity that has been involved in
   the management and wise use of California's fish and wildlife resources
   since 1870.
   It is composed of up to five members, appointed by the Governor and
   confirmed by the Senate. The Commissioners are not full-time State
   employees, but individuals involved in private enterprise with
   expertise in various wildlife-related fields. They have a staff of
   eight employees, which handle day-to-day administrative activities. The
   Commission meets at least eleven times each year to publicly discuss
   various proposed regulations, permits, licenses, management policies
   and other subjects within its areas of responsibility. It also holds a
   variety of special meetings to obtain public input on items of a more
   localized nature, requests for use permits on certain streams or
   establishment of new ecological reserves.
   Between 1870 and 1940, individual Commissioners served at the pleasure
   of the Governor. In 1940 the people provided for a Fish and Game
   Commission in the State Constitution (Article 4, Section 20). The
   Legislature delegated to the Commission a variety of powers, some
   general in nature and some very specific. A major responsibility is the
   formulation of general policies for the conduct of the Department, and
   the Director is responsible for administering the Department's
   activities in accordance with these policies. This is the only area in
   which the Commission is directly involved in Department administration.
   Its policies concern fisheries and wildlife management, introduction of
   exotics, use of departmentally-administered land and a variety of other
   subjects.
   Probably the best known responsibility of the Commission is its general
   regulatory powers function, under which it decides seasons, bag limits
   and methods of take for game animals and sport fish. In adopting
   hunting (biennially--even-numbers years) and sport fishing regulations
   (biennially -- odd-numbered years), the Commission, in each case, holds
   a series of open public meetings (three for hunting and four for sport
   fishing) located in various parts of the state, so that individual and
   group input can be received and considered prior to adoption of new or
   changed regulations.
   Some have criticized the Commission's regulatory powers actions as
   being nothing more than a rubber stamp for the Department's
   recommendations. A review of the Commission's actions on various
   Department recommendations indicates that this is not the case. In many
   instances, the Commission rejects or substantially modifies actions
   recommended by the Department, but only where it is convinced that such
   action is in the best interest of the resource and truly reflects the
   wishes and needs of the people. It is only natural that the Commission
   often relies heavily on the Department's biological data and
   recommendations, since the Department has the largest staff of experts
   for compiling data on California's wildlife.
   In the same sense that the Commission often takes independent action on
   various Department recommendations, it does this also with
   recommendations from various hunting interests and claims that it is
   concerned only with consumptive use of our resources. This is another
   allegation rapidly refuted by reviewing the facts. Actually, the
   Commission spends more of its time dealing with matters of
   environmental quality, additional species protection, and
   rehabilitation of depleted populations and habitat than it does with
   matters of consumptive use. This by no means implies that the
   Commission is totally protectionist-orientated. It is fully aware that
   optimum use of our renewable wildlife resources must provide for a
   variety of consumptive and nonconsumptive needs. Wildlife, in contrast
   with inanimate objects, cannot be stored indefinitely for future use.
   Seasons and bag limits established on species with adequate
   reproductive potential reflect the best use of a biological surplus. In
   these cases, there always is prior provision for ample breeding stock
   and for a continuing population which can be enjoyed by naturalists,
   photographers and other nonconsumptive users.
   The Commission's powers become increasingly broad as the Legislature
   gives it further regulatory and management authority. It is clear that
   the Commission, which can rapidly and expertly deal with resource
   problems, is often a more effective means of meeting the needs of the
   people and the resource than is the relatively slow process of
   legislative change. Coupled with this is an increasing awareness by the
   Legislature and all Californians that sound species management demands
   complete control over total use, and that one body, such as the
   Commission, is the most effective vehicle for controlling all forms of
   consumptive use--both sport and commercial.
   There is sometimes a feeling among the Commissioners that they are
   greatly overloaded with work and responsibility for their $100-daily,
   not to exceed $500-monthly, maximum compensation. Still, the Commission
   continues working as a group of totally dedicated and intensely
   interested individuals, who fully realize their enormous
   responsibilities. As they rely on the Department for biological data
   and expertise, they also rely on all other Californians for
   recommendations, suggestions and constructive criticism of proposed
   actions.
   The Commissioners' ultimate decisions must reflect not only the
   biological needs of our fish and wildlife, but also the wishes, needs
   and desires of all those who enjoy these resources. This is not an easy
   course to follow, and frequently it leads to conflicts between various
   interest groups. However, with the interest, understanding and
   involvement of everyone who appreciates our magnificent fish and
   wildlife resources, the California Fish and Game Commission will
   continue along the path of sound and enlightened resource management.

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
