http://www.efsec.wa.gov/nuclearproj.html

   EFSEC Logo   Washington State
     Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council
     EFSEC

                                                          Nuclear Projects

          Projects Under Review

   All Projects Under Review - Summary

   BP Cogen
   Mercer Ranch Generation
   Starbuck Power
   Sumas 2
   Wallula
   Satsop II CT Project

   Permitted Facilities

   All Permitted Projects - Summary

   Chehalis Generation
   Cowlitz Cogeneration
   Northwest Regional Power
   Satsop I CT Project
   Nuclear Projects

   About EFSEC

   EFSEC Home
   What's New
   Council
   Certification
   Meetings
   OPL Archive
   Laws & Rules
   Rules Review
   Staff Contacts
   Search
   Links
                                      Nuclear Projects Under the
   Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council
   _______________________________________________________________________

   EFSEC maintains regulatory oversight at the five nuclear projects owned
   by Energy Northwest
   *, a municipal corporation and joint operating agency of the State of
   Washington.

   *formerly known as Washington Public Power Supply System
     * Energy Northwest General Information
     * Columbia Generating Station (formerly WNP-2)

     * new1.gif (194 bytes) Proposed National Pollutant Discharge
       Elimination System (NPDES) Permit WA-002515-1 Reissuance, for the
       Columbia Generating Station - Public Hearing April 9, 2001

     WNP-1/4
     * WNP Restoration Plans 1987 to 1995
     * WNP-1/4 Restoration Plan June 1999
     * Council's 12/17/99 letter to Energy Northwest re: WNP-1/4 Site
       Restoration new1.gif (194 bytes)

     WNP-3/5 and Satsop Combustion Turbine Project

Energy Northwest

   new1.gif (194 bytes) February 23, 2001:
   Public Hearing 4/9/01, Olympia, WA:
   Proposed National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit
   WA-002515-1 Reissuance, for the Columbia Generating Station

   Columbia Generating Station
   (Formerly Nuclear Project No. 2 (WNP-2))

   The Columbia Generating Station, formerly known as WNP-2,  is an
   operating nuclear electric generating station located near Richland,
   Washington, in Benton County, on land leased from the United States
   Department of Energy (DOE) on the Hanford Site.  The approximate 1089
   acre site (the main plant is located on 605 acres and the pipeline
   corridor is 484 acres) has been leased from DOE for a term of 50 years
   commencing January 1, 1972, with options to extend the lease for two
   consecutive ten-year periods.

   The Supply System, now Energy Northwest,  filed an application with the
   state in 1971 for the construction and operation of WNP-2.  Hearings
   were held during that year and a Site Certification Agreement (SCA) was
   approved by the Governor on May 17, 1972.  The Supply System also
   received construction (3/73) and operating (12/83) licenses from the
   United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for the plant.  The
   SCA covers the entire life of the project; while NRC’s Operating
   License (OL) expires in 2023.

   Following initial startup testing, NRC issued a full power OL in March
   1984 and commercial operations commenced in December 1984.  WNP-2 has a
   net design electrical rating of 1,190 megawatts and the entire output
   of the plant has been acquired by the Bonneville Power Administration
   (BPA) through a “Net Billing Agreement.”  Since beginning commercial
   operation, WNP-2 has operated at a cumulative capacity factor  of 59.9%
   (as of August 1996) and has generated over 77 million megawatt-hours of
   electric power through January 1998.

   The Columbia Generating Station consists of a General Electric designed
   boiling water reactor and nuclear steam supply system; a
   turbine-generator; and the necessary transformer switching and
   transmission facilities to deliver the plant’s output to the Federal
   System at a transmission substation located near the plant.  The
   project consists of the following structures: the reactor building, the
   radioactive waste building, the turbine-generator building, the diesel
   generator building, the service building, six mechanical-draft
   evaporative cooling towers, the circulating water pumphouse, and the
   river makeup water pumphouse.  The station also includes the Plant
   Engineering Center located adjacent to the main plant, the Plant
   Support Facility located one mile southwest of the main plant, and
   various administrative buildings in Richland.

   Operations
   Energy Northwest's highest priority continues to be to operate the
   Columbia Generating Station safely, reliably, and economically.
   Strategic planning efforts have focused on achieving cost
   competitiveness in the regional energy market.  As energy prices
   continue to drop, the most pressing challenge facing Energy Northwest
   is to lower the cost of power produced by the Columbia Generating
   Station.  A key factor in providing cost-competitive power is continued
   improvement of the reliability of the electrical output of the plant.

   Beginning in 1993, Energy Northwest has brought in senior managers from
   some of the top performing nuclear plants in the industry.  This
   management team has brought increased focus on accountability, human
   performance, professionalism, and quality operation of the plant.  The
   major concerns relating to plant reliability and efficiency were
   immediately and aggressively addressed.  Significant expenditures were
   made for major maintenance activities and capital improvements.  The
   performance enhancement initiatives have produced significant positive
   results in actual plant performance over the past four years.

   In FY 1997 the Columbia Generating Station set a record with 270 days
   of continuous operation, the longest operating run in the plant’s
   12-year history.  The availability factor that went along with that
   operating run was 83.7%, another Columbia Generating Station record.
   The availability factor measures what percent of the entire year the
   plant was either operating or available to operate.  During the first
   half of FY 98, the plant has continued this operational trend by
   exceeding generation records in the winter months and is currently in
   its fourth longest consecutive run at over 220 days.

   The installation of the new Adjustable Speed Drives and Digital
   Feedwater systems made the plant the first in the nation with this
   combination of computerized controls for adjusting plant power levels
   and feedwater flow into the reactor vessel.  While there were problems
   with both systems, these systems allowed operators to change reactor
   power level on demand.  This capability made it possible for the plant
   to operate in a “load cycling” mode where it was able to vary power
   levels on a daily and weekend basis in response to the power needs of
   BPA.  BPA has publicly commended the plant for its enhanced reliability
   and integration with the hydro-based Federal System.

   Operational and maintenance improvements have also resulted in the
   lowering of radiation exposure for Columbia Generating Station
   workers.  Beginning a trend that began in 1995, the plant has gone from
   having one of the highest exposure rates in the industry to being in
   the lower one-third.

   The success in achieving higher performance standards at the Columbia
   Generating Station has resulted in improved SALP ratings from the NRC.
   The Systematic Assessment of Licensee Performance (SALP) is an NRC
   inspection process that takes place over a 14-month time period that
   assesses the plant’s performance in the areas of Maintenance,
   Operations, Engineering, and Plant Support.  For the period September
   3, 1995 through March 1, 1997, Columbia Generating Station received a
   score of 2 in each of the four areas indicating good performance in all
   areas ( the rating scale is 1 to 3; with 1 being the highest and 3 the
   lowest).  The report noted that Columbia Generating Station had made
   significant improvements as a whole since the previous rating period,
   but cautioned that there were still areas and issues that needed close
   attention.  The plant also received improved marks from a peer review
   conducted by the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations in late 1996.

   Energy Northwest has also been successful in reducing the cost of
   Columbia Generating Station power during the past four years.  The
   regional cost  of the station has decreased from $251 million in FY1994
   to $171.6 million in FY 1997.  The current planning target is to have
   that cost down to $150 million in FY 2000 that would bring the cost to
   less than 2 cents per kilowatt-hour.
   Request for Site Certification Agreement Amendment:
   Spent Nuclear Fuel Dry Cask Storage: Public Hearing 9/6/00

   new1.gif (194 bytes) Proposed National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
   System (NPDES) Permit WA-002515-1 Reissuance, for the Columbia
   Generating Station - Public Hearing April 9, 2001

   Top of page

   Nuclear Projects Nos. 1 and 4 (WNP-1/4)

   Background - Restoration Plans: 1987 to 1995 - June 1999 Restoration
   Plan

   Background

   Projects 1 and 4 are partially completed nuclear projects located on
   the Hanford Site on approximately 972 acres.  The sites are one and
   one-half miles east of the Columbia Generating Station.

   The application for the twin 1 and 4 projects was filed with TPPSEC in
   May 1974.  Hearings were held during early to mid-1974 and a combined
   Site Certification Agreement (SCA) was signed by the Governor on August
   8, 1975.

   WNP-1:  Construction began on WNP-1 in late 1975.  In April 1982, with
   construction 63% complete, the Supply System Board of Directors voted
   to “mothball” WNP-1 for up to five years.  While the plant was ahead of
   construction targets, a growing energy surplus and financing issues
   forced BPA to consider shutting down either WNP-1 or WNP-3 because the
   region would not need the power from both plants when the were
   scheduled to come on line in 1986.  BPA was forecasting an energy
   surplus through the year 2000 and concerns over keeping a pending rate
   increase as low as possible and the size of the last bond sale before
   Initiative 394 took effect, contributed to putting WNP-1 in an extended
   construction delay.  [Two factors in the decision to shutdown 1 vs. 3
   were the 30% private utility ownership in 3 and WNP-3 was farther along
   in construction and beating completion schedules (the plant advanced
   from 42.9% in 12/81 to 68.2% complete by the end of 1982.)

   Following the halt to construction, WNP-1 entered a preservation mode,
   where the plant assets and project licenses were maintained to enable
   the Supply System to resume construction at such a time as that action
   was determined to be appropriate.  The construction delay continued
   through to May 1994, when the Supply System board adopted a resolution
   terminating WNP-1.  Since that date, the Supply System has been
   planning for the demolition of WNP-1 and restoration of the site
   because there is no market for the sale of the plant as an energy
   facility and no viable alternative use has been found.  BPA has
   continued funding the administrative efforts associated with the
   preservation/restoration activities.

   In June 1995, EFSEC approved a Site Restoration Plan for WNP-1 that
   deferred demolition and restoration activities until the demolition
   process for the Satsop 3/5 projects could be evaluated.  It was felt
   that the experience gained at the Satsop Site would be beneficial to
   any work that would be done at the 1 (and 4) sites.  In the interim,
   the Supply System has carried out a minimal level of maintenance and
   security control at the WNP-1 project site.

   WNP-4:  Construction began on WNP-4 in 1975.  In May 1981, the Supply
   System initiated a six-month construction slowdown at 4 (and 5).  WNP-4
   was planned as a twin unit of WNP-1 to take advantage of the
   cost-savings of dual-unit construction.

   While the SCA combines the 1 and 4 projects, for funding purposes,
   WNP-1 is a separate project under a net-billing agreement with BPA,
   where Bonneville is obligated to pay for the costs of the project.
   WNP-4 and WNP-5 were created as a combined utility system and the 88
   participants were responsible to pay the projects operating costs.
   Those contracts were later declared invalid, thereby triggering the
   default on bonds issued to finance the 4/5 projects.  The following
   briefly reviews events that lead to the Supply System formally
   terminating WNP-4 in January 1982.

   In 1980 new Supply System management initiated a comprehensive
   evaluation of all costs and schedules for the five nuclear projects (3
   of the projects were shutdown at the time due to a labor dispute at
   Hanford).  This review lead to a number of management reforms being
   implemented and construction resuming at all projects.  However, the
   evaluation of the true costs to complete the projects, identified that
   cost had risen to $23.8 billion or $3 billion annually, at a time when
   there were questions being raised about the need for power, low Supply
   System credibility, and skyrocketing interest rates.

   Based on the recommendation of a “Blue Ribbon” panel established by the
   Washington and Oregon Governors, the 4/5 participants, private
   utilities, and several large industrial electricity users, developed a
   plan that would provide funding for a two-year preservation program.
   This deal fell apart as parties questioned the funding obligations that
   would be placed on them, and in mid-January 1982, the Supply System’s
   Managing Director announced that the necessary funds for mothballing
   were not available.  One week later, on January 22, 1982, the Supply
   System board terminated both the 4 and 5 projects (when construction
   was 24% and 16% complete, respectively).  The act of termination
   triggered the subsequent default on the Project 4/5 bonds on July 22,
   1983.  The Supply System had previously issued $2.25 billion
   (principal) in bonds to pay construction costs of the two plants.

   For the next decade, the Supply System was party to a substantial
   number of lawsuits related to the termination and default of bonds.
   All of the litigation has been either settled with prejudice and
   finality; or reduced to judgments against the Supply System that can
   only be paid from available funds from 4 and 5.   Top of page

   Restoration Plans: 1987 to 1995

   Partially in response to concerns that the terminated projects would
   not have the financial capability to pay for restoration, the Council
   adopted rules in 1987 that required certificate holders to prepare
   restoration plans for terminated projects.  The Supply System
   petitioned for, and the Council conditionally approved, a delay in
   consideration of the 4/5 Site Restoration Plans (Resolution No. 246).
   The postponement would allow additional time for the litigation and
   plans for the twinned 1 and 3 projects to become known; and
   acknowledged that certain salvage and asset sales were underway at the
   projects.  Following completion of the salvage work and asset sales at
   WNP-4, the only significant structures remaining are the partially
   completed reactor building and the concrete turbine-generator
   pedestal.

   In reviewing the Supply System’s request to delay consideration of the
   4/5 restoration plans, the Council faced the issue about how any future
   restoration/demolition work would be funded.  Any  4 and 5 funds were
   locked up in the numerous lawsuits and it was not felt that the state
   would not be successful in receiving specific funds for restoration if
   it pursued legal remedy, i.e., other creditors had priority claims.
   Therefore, the conditional approval of the initial plan provided
   several options that might be fruitful later on as the litigation was
   decided and/or decisions were made on the twinned projects.

   In May 1994, the Supply System terminated plans to complete Projects 1
   and 3.  After the termination vote, BPA and the Supply System agreed to
   preserve the two plants until January 1995 to explore alternative uses
   for all or a portion of the project facilities.  No alternative uses
   were identified from that effort, and the Supply System subsequently
   submitted a Site Restoration Plan to the Council in 1995 that covered
   all four terminated projects.  The plan identifies that no funding is
   available to carry out restoration activities associated with
   WNP-4.    Top of page

   June 1999 WNP-1/4 Restoration Plan

   Energy Northwest submitted a revised Site Restoration Plan for the
   WNP-1/4 project site to EFSEC on June 30, 1999. The revised plan sets
   out a series of options or  levels for site restoration at the 1/4
   sites. The plan presents nine (9) restoration levels that range from
   site access control and security with removal of environmental and
   safety hazards, to varying degrees of entombment, demolition or removal
   to grade of existing structures. The plan also provides updated
   restoration costs for the nine restoration levels based on an analysis
   to relative public risk.

   Energy Northwest did not request that EFSEC approve the revised plan at
   this time, recognizing that other stakeholders must be brought into the
   discussion. At the same time as it is developing restoration options,
   Energy Northwest is also working with local agencies to examine the
   potential reuse or redevelopment of the 1/4 site and facilities.

   EFSEC believes that stakeholder and public involvement will assist the
   Council in arriving at an approach to site restoration at WNP-1/4. The
   Council has initiated an informal dialog with representatives from
   Energy Northwest, the Bonneville Power Administration, the United
   States Department of Energy, The Washington Department of Ecology and
   Congressional Staff in order to understand the issues and alternatives
   available to the Council. EFSEC is also seeking to involve the public,
   state agencies, tribes and the environmental community.

   A public hearing was conducted on October 27, 1999, in Richland,
   Washington, to provide an opportunity for these stakeholders and
   interested persons or organizations to comment on future plans for the
   1/4 site.

   At its regular meeting on December 13, 1999, the Council adopted a
   series of observations, timelines, and directives to guide the
   development and implementation of site restoration/reuse activities at
   the WNP-1 and WNP-4 projects. Council formally communicated these
   observations, timelines, and directives to Energy Northwest in a letter
   dated December 17, 1999. Council will continue working with Energy
   Northwest and other interested parties to advance the restoration plans
   for the WNP-1 and WNP-4 sites.

   Additional information regarding Energy Northwest's Restoration Plan is
   available as follows:
     * WNP-1/4 Restoration Plan - Executive Summary - HTML format.
     * WNP-1/4 Restoration Plan - Full document in PDF format
     * Council's December 17th, 1999 letter to Energy Northwest regarding
       WNP-1/4 Site Restoration - full letter in PDF format
     * Notice of 10/27/99 Public Hearing on WNP-1/4 Site Restoration
       Plans: HTML - PDF

   For additional information regarding the Restoration Plan please
   contact:

   Mike Mills, EFSEC Compliance Manager
   Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council
   925 Plum Street SE, Bldg. 4
   PO Box 43172
   Olympia, WA 98504-3172
   (360) 956-2151
   mikem@ep.cted.wa.gov

   Top of page

   Nuclear Project Nos. 3 and 5 (WNP-3/5)
   Projects 3 and 5 are partially completed nuclear projects located on
   the Satsop Site on approximately 1600 acres near Elma, Washington, in
   Grays Harbor County.

   The Supply System filed an application for the construction and
   operation of the twin 3 and 5 projects in December 1973.  Hearings were
   held from August to November 1975 and an SCA was signed on October 27,
   1976.

   WNP-3:  Construction began on WNP-3 in 1977.  The project is jointly
   owned, 70% by the Supply System (BPA has acquired the Supply System’s
   ownership share of Project 3 through a net billing agreement); and 30%
   by four investor-owned utilities (Pacific Power & Light, Portland
   General Electric, Puget Sound Power & light, and Washington Water
   Power).

   As noted above, in 1980 the Supply System made major management changes
   and took initiatives to: bring in an experienced construction manager
   for all the projects (Bechtel); reduce unnecessary expenditures; secure
   changes in state contracting laws; stabilize labor agreements; and
   identify the true costs to complete the projects.

   The results of these reforms were evident in all the projects, but were
   probably most obvious at WNP-3 which became known as the Supply
   System’s “showcase” project before it was reluctantly placed in an
   extended construction delay in July 1983.  The construction pace
   doubled from around 1% completion a month to an average of 2% per month
   in 1982.  During that time about a quarter of the plant was completed,
   advancing it from 42.9% in 12/81 to 68.2% in December 1982.But despite
   the reforms and excellent construction progress, it was necessary for
   the either delay or terminate at four of its projects in 1982-83.

   The Supply System’s worsening financial condition in 1983 led to the
   reluctant decision in July 1983 to delay construction on WNP-3 for up
   to three years.  That decision stemmed from the Supply System being
   prevented from raising the $961 million needed to complete WNP-3 from
   revenue sale bonds.  At the time construction was halted, the project
   was about 76% complete and just about to make the transition from the
   primary construction phase to testing, startup, and operations.

   Just as at WNP-1 at Hanford, WNP-3 then entered into a preservation
   program that was designed to preserve the equipment and construction
   licenses so that the plants could be restarted at some future date if
   the region decided they were needed.  This program involved such steps
   as wrapping the electric switching gear in plastic, purging the steam
   generators with an inert gas, rotating turbine generator shafts every
   six months, and at Satsop, maintaining a vigorous humidity and moisture
   control regime to prevent corrosion on the many pieces of equipment
   both inside and outside the plant.  The costs of the preservation
   program were paid by BPA as the 1 and 3 plants were identified as
   “options” or possible future resources if they were cost-effective and
   financing impediments could be lifted.

   In April 1993 the Supply System Executive Board recommended termination
   studies for Projects 1 and 3.  The realization that completion of the
   projects as commercial nuclear power plants was unlikely, prompted the
   board’s action.  Preservation activities would continue until the
   results of the Supply System/BPA study was completed.

   On May 13, 1994, based on the recommendations of the study, the Supply
   System board adopted resolutions terminating Nuclear Projects 1 and 3.
   Preservation funding was to be continued through January 1995 while the
   Supply System evaluated alternative uses for and to facilitate the
   marketing of the projects.  Since that date, the Supply System has been
   planning for the demolition of the projects and restoration of the
   sites.  Funding has continued for the administrative activities
   associated with termination and planning for restoration/demolition for
   both the 3 and 1 projects.

   In March 1995 the Supply System submitted a Site Restoration Plan to
   EFSEC pursuant to the Council’s site restoration regulations for
   terminated projects.  On June 12, 1995, the Council approved the Supply
   System’s Plan for restoration of the 1, 3, 4, and 5 project sites.  The
   plan focused on the Satsop Site and plans to remove the assets, and
   restore the site by demolition, burial, entombment, or other techniques
   that would minimize damage to the environment and hazard to the
   public.  The Supply System proposed to use the Satsop restoration
   experience as a model for future restoration at the 1and 4 sites.  In
   conditionally approving the Supply System’s plan, the Council
   recognized that there was uncertainty in how the plan would be
   implemented, and therefore reserved the opportunity to conduct
   additional reviews once the details of the plan(s) were finalized.
   [Under the termination agreements, BPA would continue to pay for the
   administrative expenses of maintaining the plan and restoration
   activities at the net-billed 3 and 1 projects; however, those projects
   would have no legal obligation to pay for 4 and 5.]

   Also affecting the future of the Satsop Site, is a plan developed by
   Grays Harbor County interests to use the site for economic development
   purposes.  During 1995, a group of county agencies formed the Satsop
   Redevelopment Project to examine the potential for economic and
   industrial business opportunities at the site.  The group was
   instrumental in getting legislation passed in 1996 that would enable
   local governments and the Supply System to negotiate an arrangement
   allowing the locals to assume an interest in the site for economic
   development by transferring ownership of all or a portion of the site
   to local government entities.  The legislation also provides for local
   government to assume regulatory responsibilities for site restoration
   requirements and control of water rights.

   Since the adoption of the legislation, the county has completed studies
   on possible reuse or development of the site and entered into
   discussions with the Supply System (and BPA) about possible alternative
   uses for the site.  The Supply System has advised the Council that they
   have reached an agreement in principle to transfer the site to Grays
   Harbor County.

   During this time the Supply System also applied for, and was issued a
   Site Certification Agreement, to construct and operate a two-unit
   combustion turbine project at the Satsop Site.  The project (one-unit)
   was selected as one of three combustion turbine power plants to be
   developed  (designed and permitted) and held as an “option” under BPA’s
   Resource Contingency Program.  While there are no assurances that
   either unit will be needed, the SCA and associated permits are good for
   a ten-year period.

   WNP-5: Construction began in 1977.  As noted above in the discussion of
   WNP-4, based on the Supply System’s review of costs required to
   complete the five projects under construction, and problems faced by
   the Supply System and participants in finding financing to continue
   work on 4 and 5, on May 29, 1981, the Supply System board accepted a
   recommendation by Managing Director Bob Ferguson to begin a six-month
   construction slowdown at the two projects.  When efforts to come up
   with a funding plan for a two-year “mothball” period failed, on January
   22, 1982 the Supply System board terminated Project 5 (and 4) when it
   was 16% complete.

   Refer to the discussion under Projects 3 and 4 for additional details
   on the status of site restoration activities at the 3/5 Satsop Site.

   The Site Restoration Plan approved by the Council for the 1, 3, 4, and
   5 projects, acknowledges that there is no funding source for Project 5
   site restoration, while assuming that costs will be reasonable and
   funding will be found to accomplish whatever work is needed.

   The disposition of WNP-5 facilities is part of the current negotiation
   between the Supply System and Grays Harbor County interests to reach
   agreement on a plan for transferring all or a portion of the Satsop
   Site to the county.

   WNP-3/5 SCA Amendment

   On June 25, 1998, the Washington Public Power Supply System (Supply
   System) filed a request with the Council to amend its SCA for the
   Satsop Power Plant site. The existing SCA authorizes construction and
   operation of two nuclear power plants (WNP-3 and WNP-5) and a
   combustion turbine (Satsop Combustion Turbine Project). The purpose of
   the requested amendment is to remove the authorization for the two
   nuclear power plants from the agreement. The remaining agreement would
   continue to authorize the operation and construction of the combustion
   turbine project with an associated natural gas pipeline. Consistent
   with WAC 463-36 and pursuant to due and proper notice, the Council held
   a public hearing and received comments on the proposed amendment. After
   review of the request, and of ensuing comments, Council submitted a
   recommendation to the Governor in Order 731.

     Council Order No. 731: Order Recommending Governor's Approval of
     Amendment of Site Certification Agreement for Satsop Power Plant
     Site (doc) (pdf). April 20, 1999.

   By letter dated April 30, 1999, Wildlife Forever of Grays Harbor
   requested reconsideration of the Council’s Order No. 731 and a stay of
   the order until its lawsuit, Wildlife Forever v. Washington Public
   Power Supply System (Thurston County Superior Court No. 99-2-00620-5),
   is decided.  Council sent notice to interested persons, providing an
   opportunity to comment on Wildlife Forever’s motions. The Council
   reconsidered Order 731 in light of these comments and reaffirmed its
   earlier order in Order 735.

     Council Order No. 735: Order on Reconsideration Reaffirming Order
     731 and Denying Stay (doc) (pdf). June 11, 1999

     Top of page

   For additional information regarding the Energy Northwest Nuclear
   Projects please contact:

   Mike Mills, EFSEC Compliance Manager
   Energy Facility Site Evaluation Council
   925 Plum Street SE, Bldg. 4
   PO Box 43172
   Olympia, WA 98504-3172
   (360) 956-2151
   mikem@ep.cted.wa.gov

   _______________________________________________________________________

                       Proposed Projects Under Review:
                 [ BP Cherry Point Cogen ] [ Mercer Ranch ]
                 [ Sumas 2 ] [ Starbuck Power ] [ Wallula ]

     [ What's New ] [ Council ] [ Certification ] [ Meetings ] [ Laws &
                                   Rules ]
          [ Nuclear Projects ] [ Project Summary ] [ OPL Archive ]
            [ Contacts ] [ Search ] [ Links ] [ Privacy Notice ]

     [ EFSEC Home Page ] [ CTED Home Page ] Washington State Community,
                     Trade and Economic Development Logo

   http://www.efsec.wa.gov/
   Question or Comment?
   Contact EFSEC at efsec@ep.cted.wa.gov
