http://www.va.gov/whatsnew/


                 What's New Icon
                  VA Home Page
          Veterans Benefits & Services
                    About VA
         Public Affairs & Special Events
       Congressional & Legislative Affairs
   Partners, Veterans Organizations, & Vendors
                   Hot Topics
                     VA Seal
                [skip navigation]
   [skip navigation]
   What's New to the VA Web Site
     * January 11, 2002
       The VA Salt Lake City Health Care System has developed a "2002
       Winter Olympic Information" webpage. It offers information for
       veterans with clinic appointments at the VA Salt Lake City Medical
       Center during the 2002 Olympic Winter Games. Topics include what
       identification to bring, peak dates, when the clinics will be open
       and travel directions to the Medical Center campus.

     * October 3, 2001
       In fulfillment of a promise made during his confirmation, the
       Secretary of Veterans Affairs signed a charter establishing the
       Department of Veterans Affairs' Claims Processing Task Force on May
       22, 2001

     * April 10, 2001
       The Department of Veterans Affairs' FY 2002 Budget Submission -
       Summary Volume is available for review. The summary volume includes
       an overview of the Department’s congressional budget submission,
       budget highlights by program, and funding resources tables. The
       Summary Volume focuses primarily on the budget year 2002 - the
       upcoming fiscal year for which Congress needs to make
       appropriations. It also includes actual data on 2000 and current
       estimates for 2001. There are sections in the volume containing
       historical tables going back to 1993 and expenditures by state.

     * April 9, 2001
       The Departmental Performance Plan Fiscal Year 2002 is available.
       With the 2002 Performance Plan, we continue our efforts to raise
       the level of confidence of America's veterans in the VA's ability
       to improve the timeliness and accuracy of claims processing, to
       expand access to quality health care, and to meet the burial needs
       of veterans. This plan describes how we will achieve these goals
       with the funds we request in the 2002 Budget.

     * April 2, 2001
       Annual Performance Report FY 2000: The Annual Performance Report FY
       2000 documents VA's progress in providing high-quality, timely
       benefits and services to America's veterans. This report identifies
       the achievements VA recorded during FY 2000 that have contributed
       to attaining the goals and objectives in the VA Strategic Plan and
       Annual Performance Plan. In so doing, this report provides detailed
       information to Congress, OMB, veterans service organizations, and
       other stakeholders on how well we are doing in meeting our
       committment to honor our veterans and to compensate them for their
       sacrifices.
     * April 2, 2001
       National Survey of Veterans: The Department is currently sponsoring
       a national survey of veterans, the fifth in a series of national
       surveys begun in 1978. The survey consists of telephone interviews
       directly with veterans. The survey contractor, Westat Inc., is
       asking veterans about their military background, health status,
       disabilities, education and needs for services. The data collected
       will be used as input for policy and planning purposes.
     * February 21, 2001
       The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) unveils its new hepatitis C
       Web site for the Centers of Excellence in Hepatitis C Research and
       Education. Both veterans and health care providers can access
       current information on hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection.
     * December 18, 2000
       The Department of Veterans Affairs has implemented a pilot Child
       Care Tuition Assistance Program for employees who earn less than
       $52,000. Under program guidelines, employees may have up to 35% of
       their child care costs paid if they meet eligibility criteria. The
       program is scheduled to kick off January 1, 2001. Applications are
       available now. Contact your HR representative or visit us at our
       Web site http://www.va.gov/VAchildcare.

     * December 15, 2000
       VA HyperFAQ ? Navigate the top 100 VA Web sites using a simple
       question-answering system.

     * September 30, 2000
       The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has completed its Strategic
       Plan for FY 2001?2006. VA has consulted extensively with veterans
       and other stakeholders as part of the development of this document.
       A summary version of this plan with a focus on VA employees will
       also soon be available on this Web site.

     * June 15, 2000
       To commemorate the 50th anniversary of the beginning of the Korean
       War, we present Data on Veterans of the Korean War (.doc file), an
       eight page document containing information on Korean War veterans.
       Included are historical facts, and data on the demographic and
       socioeconomic characteristics of Korean War veterans and their use
       of VA programs.

     * May 30, 2000
       One VA is a way of capturing the notion that the different agencies
       of the Department of Veterans Affairs ? Veterans Health
       Administration, Veterans Benefits Administration, National Cemetery
       Administration, Headquarters, and Staff Offices ? are actually one
       entity.

     * March 22, 2000
       The Changing Veteran Population: 1990?2020 is a concise reference
       and data sourcebook on demographic trends within the veteran
       population and on selected characteristics of veterans. Included
       are estimates and projections of the veteran population by age,
       sex, period of service, and state of residence, as well as the most
       recent data on the social and economic characteristics of veterans
       and program use among them.

     * February 23, 2000
       VA Directive 5978 ? Alternative Dispute Resolution, was signed by
       the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. This directive sets forth the
       policies and assigns responsibilities; encourages and directs the
       appropriate use of ADR techniques to resolve disputes and issues in
       controversy within VA at the lowest organizational level; and
       establishes a framework for encouraging the expanded use of ADR
       within VA.

     * January 31, 2000
       The Veteran-Focused Internet Redesign Project unveiled the new look
       for the Department of Veterans Affairs Web site!


   VA Home Page / Search / Site Map / Facilities Locator / Disclaimer
   Privacy & Security Statement / Freedom of Information Act / Contact the
   VA


   Reviewed/Updated: 1/11/2002
