http://www.swrcb.ca.gov/index.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                     Home
                     Board Business
                     Laws/Regulations
                     News/Media Info
                     Regional Boards
                     Water Quality
                     Water Rights
                     Water Education


                     [seal.jpg]

                     State Water Resources Control Board

                     1001 I Street Sacramento, CA 95814
                     P.O. Box 100 Sacramento, CA 95812

                     (916) 341-5254
                     fax (916) 341-5252
                     Contact Us



    State Water Resources Control Board

      "The State Board's mission is to preserve, enhance and restore the
      quality of California's water resources, and ensure their proper
      allocation and efficient use for the benefit of present and future
      generations."

    Arthur G. Baggett Jr., Chair ddddd

                       Water Resources Collage Picture

     Energy Challenge LINK Water Grants & Loans LINK East Coast Disaster
     Volunteer Efforts LINK

                                 Water News

   Beaver Photo Beach Advisories:
   Assembly Bill 1946 requires the State Water Resources Control Board to
   post monthly beach data from coastal counties throughout the state.
   wedge read entire document...

     Proposition 13 Phase II Request for Concept Proposals released
   December 13, 2001.
   wedge read entire document...

     Project WET Workshop January 26, 2002 - A Workshop for Educators to
   Promote Awareness & Knowledge of California's Water Resources.
   State Board Contact, Holly Sheradin/916-341-5466.
   wedge read entire document...

     State Water Resources Control Board issues Second Public Notice of
   Water Quality Enforcement Policy.
   wedge read entire document...

     Written Comments on Legal Classification of Groundwater Now
   Available.
   wedge read entire document...

     State Water Board adopts new emergency regulations regarding the
   electronic submission of laboratory data for the UST reports. Includes
   EDF (Data Dictionary) and COELT (Error Check), both effective September
   1, 2001.
   wedge read entire document..

   303d List: Visit here to review the State's Impaired Water Bodies.
   wedge read entire document...

   Beaver Photo Flex Your Power:
   See energy saving tips, incentives, and information on how California
   is meeting the energy challenge. Plus links to Governor Davis' orders,
   press releases, and actions on electricity stabilization, conservation
   and generation.
   wedge read entire document...


   (updated 12/13/01)

   You are visitor number [swrcb.ca.gov] Counter provided by
   http://www.digits.com
