http://www.kpl.gov

   HOMEPAGE
   KPL's Web Catalog
   ABOUT THE LIBRARY
   REFERENCE DESK
   ONLINE RESOURCES
   LOCAL HISTORY
   CHILDRENS SERVICES
   YOUNG ADULT SERVICES
   AUDIOVISUAL
   PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES
   FRIENDS OF THE LIBRARY
   [bottom.gif]

   [welcometext.jpg]
     * KPL Catalog [ISMAP:index.html_txt_inside.gif]-Photo Tour of Library
     * Community Information Database
     * Newspapers and Local History Database (Citations only)
     * My Account (View and renew items checked out)

   Tax Forms -- Quick Access

   Are you doing research on a topic? Click Online Resources for online
   databases (Home Access), 44 categories of links to the World Wide Web
   and some of our favorite search engines.  Or you can search the 8,000
   Ebook titles available at netLibrary.  For more information on Ebooks,
   click here.
   Questions?  Ask US!   E-mail your reference question to the library.

   Join the Book My Favorites Club, and we'll automatically place a
   reserve on the new book by your favorite author.  This is a great
   service for our in-district card holders.

   Are you interested in improving your knowledge of the Internet?  Visit
   our Computer Training page to see our fine selection of Internet
   training classes.

   Maybe you're looking for information about Kalamazoo or researching
   genealogy, then the Local History Department is where you want to be.

   The new Bookmobile is on the road!   Join us at one of our many stops
   to see the beautiful, spacious vehicle.

   Are you looking for something for your kids to do on those long, rainy
   afternoons? Stop by the Children's Department for the latest children's
   programs and reading games.

   And don't forget the Teen Services Department.   Here you can get
   homework help and information on the Young Adult Advisory Group (YAAG).
   While here, be sure to check out the Royal Reads and Author of the
   Month for the best in teen reading.

   If you're more interested in soothing sounds, travel to the Audiovisual
   Department, where you can find information on CD's, Books on
   Audiocassette and videos.

   Now that you've seen some of what we have to offer, you're probably
   wondering, "When is the library open?" and "How do I get a library
   card?" Click About the Library for this and other information regarding
   policies and procedures.

   KPL staff believes in giving back to the community that supports us.
   Check out our Community Garden to see what we do in our spare time.

   Kalamazoo Public Library
   315 S. Rose St.
   Kalamazoo, MI  49007
   Tel:  616-342-9837
   Fax: 616-342-8324

               [ISMAP:branches.jpg]-branches.jpg (89986 bytes)
   [spectrum.jpg]

                    If you wish to send us a comment or a suggestion
                           [emailb.gif] Click Here

   Internet
   Use Policy
   In compliance with the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the library's
   agent for notification of claims of infringement is Kathy Ruddick.

                                           Number of Visitors: Hit Counter
