http://www.gismaps.fema.gov



   [ISMAP:bn_gis.gif]-FEMA.GOV: IT - GIS Team Banner imagemap. The links
   are repeated at the bottom of the page as text links if you can't use
   the alt links here.

   Skip past Side Navigation Bar GIS Home
   What is GIS?
   FEMA GIS Development
   Remote Sensing Information
   Feedback

   Disaster Maps
       Latest
       Current Year
       Archives

   Current Disasters
   Project Impact
   News
   Flood Maps
   FEMA Mapping and Analysis Center Logo


                      FEMA Mapping and Analysis Center

   The Mapping and Analysis Center (MAC) provides national level
   Geographic Information System (GIS) support and coordination to the
   Agency. GIS mapping products are available for the New York City World
   Trade Center Attack, the attack on the Pentagon, the latest disasters,
   along with current and an archive of prior year disasters. This site is
   limited to presidential declared disasters and tropical
   storms/hurricanes that have projected landfall on the U.S. or a
   territory.

   The MAC does not operate normally on a 24 hour/7 day basis. For the
   latest storm information check the National Weather Service`s website.

   A Geographic Information System (GIS) is a computer-based system used
   to capture, store, analyze and display geographic information.
   Emergency managers use GIS information to help make critical decisions
   quickly.

   In addition to the MAC, other contributors to this site are the FEMA
   Headquarters Information Coordination Unit, Regional Offices, and
   Disaster Field Offices.

   Please note that information on flood insurance rate maps, and
   floodplain mapping is available from the National Flood lnsurance
   Program.

         Important! Please Read: Notice from FEMA`s General Counsel


    Updated: January 2, 2002

   FOOTER: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY

     [ FEMA Home Page | Site Help | GIS Search | GIS Feedback | Privacy
                           Policy | FEMA Library |
