http://www.va.gov

   This Web site works best with the latest version of screen readers. If
   you have a problem reading this Web page, we have a text only version.
   Skip navigation menu.
   Department of Veterans Affairs How May We Serve You?
   Online Applications
   Compensation and Pension Applications
   Education Applications
   Health Applications
   Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Services Applications
   Special Programs
   Accessibility
   Homeless Veterans
   Military Services
   Minority Veterans
   Women Veterans
   Today's Department of Veteran Affairs
   About the Department of Veterans Affairs
   Congressional and Legislative Affairs
   Hot Topics
   Partners, Strategic & Capital Plans, Veterans Service Organizations,
   and Vendors
   Public Affairs and Special Events
   Veteran Data and Information
   What's New
   FirstGov
   A curved image forming part of the menu background. A clear one pixel
   image for spacing. Health Benefits and Services The image shows a
   health care provider taking a person's blood pressure. The page
   contains information about eligibility for care, locations of health
   care facilities, forms, frequently asked questions, hot topics and
   press releases, general information about the Veterans Health
   Administration, and an e-mail contact.
   Burial and Memorial Benefits The image shows a cemetery. The page
   contains information on cemeteries, headstones and markers,
   presidential memorial certificates, and state cemetery grants program.
   A clear one pixel image for spacing.   Compensation and Pension
   Benefits The image shows the head and shoulders of a man and a woman in
   front of watermarked version of seals of the military services. The
   page contains information on veterans compensation and pension,
   dependents compensation and pension, dependents educational assistance,
   application forms, and on-line e-mail access to a VA Regional Office
   for assistance.
     A clear one pixel image for spacing.
   A clear one pixel image for spacing. Seal of the Department of Veterans
   Affairs
   Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Services The image shows a
   person at a computer customized for a disability. The page contains
   information on the program, application forms, rehabilitation
   employment services, vocational and educational counseling, and
   frequently asked questions. A clear one pixel image for spacing.   Home
   Loan Guaranty Services The image shows three people talking. The page
   contains information on the program, certificates of eligibility, VA
   acquired properties, information for lenders and servicers, Automated
   Appraisal Assignment Processing System, e-mail contracts, and
   application forms.
   A clear one pixel image for spacing. Life Insurance Program The image
   shows several military members in the field running toward a
   helicopter. The page contains information on the program, forms and
   applications, the various types of life insurance available, real
   dividend and hoax information, and e-mail contacts.     Education
   Benefits The image shows a graduation cap in the air. The page contains
   information relating to the program, e-mail inquiries, school
   certifications, frequently asked questions, forms, news, and
   regulations and policies.
   A curved image forming part of the menu background. A clear one pixel
   image for spacing.
   Appeals: Board of Veterans' Appeals The image shows a gavel on top of
   an American flag. The page contains information relating to
   understanding the appeals process, customer service standards, and
   appeals decisions for the years 1994 through 1999.
   A curved image forming part of the menu background. A clear one pixel
   image for spacing.
   A clear one pixel image for spacing.
   A clear one pixel image for spacing. A clear one pixel image for
   spacing. A clear one pixel image for spacing. A clear one pixel image
   for spacing. A clear one pixel image for spacing. A clear one pixel
   image for spacing. A clear one pixel image for spacing. A clear one
   pixel image for spacing. A clear one pixel image for spacing.

   Hot Topics HotTopics:  National Veterans Museum
   Search / Site Map / Facilities Locator / Disclaimer /
   Privacy & Security / Text Only / Freedom of Information Act /
   Español / HyperFAQ / Contact the VA
   Updated/Reviewed: January 24, 2002
