http://tampa.fbi.gov

                               Welcome to the
                             FBI Tampa Division

                               Photo of Tampa

                              Color divider Bar

                             Animated U.S. Flag

           Acting Special Agent In Charge: Lawrence E. Albert Jr.

           Assistant Special Agent in Charge: Jonathan I. Solomon

         Acting Assistant Special Agent in Charge: Timothy P. Murphy

                              Color divider Bar

   The FBI Tampa Division has Federal Jurisdiction over the Middle
   District of Florida. The Division is comprised of Tampa Headquarters,
   as well as seven Resident Agencies.

   How To Contact Us ........

                              Color divider Bar

                           FBI Tampa Headquarters

   Office Hours : 8:15 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
   Monday through Friday

   Office Phone : (813) 273-4566

   For all EMERGENCIES please dial 911.

                                  FBI Tampa
                               500 Zack Street
                                  Suite 610
                               Tampa, FL 33602

   For information on contacting any of our Resident Agencies and for
   determining which Resident Agency is responsible for your county,
   please see our Territory page.

   For general inquiries or communications you may e-mail the FBI Tampa
   Division at tampa@fbi.gov. When providing information via e-mail,
   please include your name, telephone number and address. All e-mail will
   be reviewed, however, the FBI does not guarantee a response to all
   e-mail messages.

   If you want to advise FBI Tampa Division of matters concerning Internet
   Fraud, please send such e-mail to our Internet Fraud Coordinator whose
   e-mail address is ifcc.tp@fbi.gov. You may also wish to complete a
   complaint form at the Internet Fraud Complaint Center where your
   complaint will be accumulated with others concerning the same subject
   or matter so that an appropriate response can be made.

   If you want to advise FBI Tampa Division of matters concerning Child
   Pornography Facilitated Through the Internet, please send e-mail to
   iitf.tampa@fbi.gov


   FBI Tampa     Contact Us    Territory    Job Opportunities    Press
   Releases    Links    FBI Home Page    FBI's Most Wanted - Tampa
   Privacy and Security Notice

   This page was last updated on 06/28/2001.
