http://www.nsrl.nist.gov



                               [nsl2small.jpg]

     National Software Reference Library (NSRL) Project Web Site

   HOME

   DOCUMENTS

   STATUS

   TOOL TESTING

   The National Institute of
   Standards and Technology
   (NIST) is an agency of the
   U.S. Department of
   Commerce 's
   Technology Administration .

   [centlogo_small_teal.JPG]


   Updated on: 2001-11-28

   The NSRL Reference Data Set (RDS) is available for ordering. Go to
   http://www.nist.gov/srd/nistsd28.htm to order NIST Special Database 28.
   The cost will be $90 per year and will entitle the purchaser to receive
   up to four distributions per year. Collaborators and vendors that
   submit software that we do not currently possess will receive copies at
   no charge. Redistribution of the RDS is free and is encouraged.

   A new version of the NSRL RDS format document has been archived on the
   documents page. The changes were made to correct information identified
   from user feedback.

   Inadvertantly, the CD was sent out in a packing envelope that stated
   the CD was copyrighted and could not be distributed without permission.
   Please disregard the statements on the envelope. Future versions of the
   CD will not be shipped in these envelopes. As stated on the label
   insert in the CD case, "This CD was produced by the National Institute
   of Standards and Technology (NIST) which is solely responsible for its
   contents. The reference to, or use of specific products in this CD is
   neither a recommendation of, nor a promotion of use.
   This CD and its contents may be freely copied to any media. The
   database on this CD is digitally signed to allow NIST to be able to
   verify that no changes have been made to its contents. As long as no
   modifications to the contents have been made, a notice that NIST is the
   originator of the contents must accompany each copy made. If
   modifications are made, references to NIST as the producer must be
   removed."

   Welcome to the new and updated National Software Reference Library
   (NSRL) Project Web Site.

   This project is supported by the U.S. Department of Justice's National
   Institute of Justice (NIJ) , federal, state, and local law enforcement,
   and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to
   promote efficient and effective use of computer technology in the
   investigation of crimes involving computers. Numerous other sponsoring
   organizations from law enforcement, government, and industry are
   providing resources to accomplish these goals.

   The National Software Reference Library (NSRL) is designed to collect
   software from various sources and incorporate file profiles computed
   from this software into a Reference Data Set (RDS) of information. The
   RDS can be used by law enforcement, government, and industry
   organizations to review files on a computer by matching file profiles
   in the RDS. This will help alleviate much of the effort involved in
   determining which files are important as evidence on computers or file
   systems that have been seized as part of criminal investigations.

   The Computer Forensics Tool Testing (CFTT) Project has its own web site
   at http://www.cftt.nist.gov .

                                 Contact us:


               National Institute of Standards and Technology
                             ATTN: NSRL Project
                         100 Bureau Drive, Stop 8970
                       Gaithersburg, MD 20899-8970 USA
    E-mail: nsrl@nist.gov       Phone: 301-975-3262     FAX: 301-948-6213
