http://www.courtinfo.ca.gov

   Opinions Forms Rules Courts Programs Jobs Reference Search Site
   Welcome to the California Courts Web site

   Self-Help Center
   News Releases
   Court Admin
   Juror Information
   Other Web Sites
   Questions & Answers
   Invitations to Comment
   Site Tour
   Site Map


   State Courts Regional Director Wins Top National Honor

   Sheila Gonzalez, Southern California regional administrative director
   of the Administrative Office of the Courts, poses with U.S. Supreme
   Court Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist at a recent ceremony in
   Washington D.C. honoring her induction into the National Center for
   State Courts Warren E. Burger Society. The society recognizes
   individuals who have demonstrated extraordinary commitment to improving
   the administration of justice and support to the NCSC. Inductees
   receive a limited edition print of former Chief Justice Warren Burgers
   portrait. (photo: Courtesy of the NCSC)

      Of Current Interest


   Supreme Court Case Information Now Online (01/29/02)
   The California Supreme Court launched a new case information Web site
   that allows litigants, attorneys, the public, and the press to quickly
   access up-to-date information about pending high court cases.

   Public to Discuss Proposed Ethics Standards for Arbitrators (01/29/02)
   The Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC) will hold public forums
   on February 7 in Los Angeles and February 8 in San Francisco to discuss
   proposed ethics standards for contractual arbitrators in California. If
   adopted, the standards would be the first of their kind in the country.

   New Administrative Presiding Justice for First Appellate District
   (01/28/02)
   Supreme Court Chief Justice Ronald M. George appointed Presiding
   Justice William R. McGuiness as the new Administrative Presiding
   Justice of the Court of Appeal for the First Appellate District (San
   Francisco).

   Commission Confirms Appellate Appointments (01/25/02)
   The Commission on Judicial Appointments confirmed six appointments to
   the Court of Appeal, First Appellate District (San Francisco) and one
   appointment to the Court of Appeal, Sixth Appellate District (San
   Jose).

   New Procedures in Death Penalty Cases (01/24/02)
   The California Supreme Court has taken action on two proposals designed
   to enhance the courts procedures on payment of court-appointed counsel
   in death penalty appeals and related habeas corpus proceedings. The
   court adopted one new procedure on habeas corpus investigative expenses
   and is seeking comment on a proposal that changes the fixed fee payment
   procedures.

   AOC Names Santa Cruz Court Executive to New Post (01/24/02)
   The Administrative Office of the Courts named Christine Patton,
   Executive Officer of the Superior Court of Santa Cruz County, as its
   new Regional Administrative Director of the Bay Area/Northern Coastal
   Courts. Ms. Patton, who will take office by July 1, will be charged
   with expanding services to the region's appellate and trial courts in
   16 counties and providing a liaison between the AOC and the courts in
   such areas as technology, finance, and human resources.

   Council Seeks Comments on New Rules (01/24/02)
   The Judicial Council invites comments on proposed new rules setting
   ethics standards for neutral arbitrators, procedures for filing papers
   in False Claims Act cases, and guidelines for the design of court
   facilities. Deadline for submitting comments is February 22, 2002.

   Commission Confirms Appointment to Court of Appeal (01/15/02)
   The Commission on Judicial Appointments confirmed the appointment of
   Judge Ronald B. Robie, of the Superior Court of Sacramento County, as
   associate justice of the Court of Appeal for the Third Appellate
   District (Sacramento).

   Supreme Court To Review Report on Out-of-State Lawyers (01/08/02)
   In its final report to the Supreme Court, the court's Advisory
   Committee on Multijurisdictional Practice recommends clarifying and
   easing current restrictions on out-of-state lawyers.

   Commission to Consider Appointment to Fourth Appellate District Court
   of Appeal (12/26/01)
   The Commission on Judicial Appointments will convene on February 8,
   2002, to consider Governor Gray Davis appointment of Judge Richard D.
   Fybel as an Associate Justice of the Court of Appeal, Fourth Appellate
   District, Division Three (Santa Ana). Judge Fybel currently serves on
   the Superior Court of Orange County.

   Council Adopts New Case Management Rules (12/21/01)
   The Judicial Council approved new rules designed to establish greater
   uniformity in civil practice, promote good case management, and reduce
   litigation costs. The rules will take effect on July 1, 2002.

   Council Seeks Comments on New Rules (12/20/01)
   The Judicial Council invites comments on proposed new rules
   establishing minimum standards of conduct for mediators when serving in
   court-connected mediation programs for general civil cases and
   procedures for handling complaints against mediators serving in such
   programs. Deadline for submitting comments is February 12, 2002.

   Three Judicial Leaders Recognized for Distinguished Service (12/18/01)
   The Judicial Council announced this year's recipients of the
   Distinguished Service Awards for their leadership and contributions to
   the administration of justice in California. They are: Administrative
   Presiding Justice Daniel J. Kremer of the Court of Appeal, Fourth
   District, Division One; Michael Roddy, regional director for the
   Administrative Office of the Courts; and William A. Fenwick, partner,
   Fenwick & West, Palo Alto.

   Council Seeks Comments on Amendments to Rules (12/13/01)
   The Judicial Council invites comments on proposed amendments to rules
   of court affecting juvenile law, appellate rules, receiverships, and
   employment law form interrogatories. Deadline for submitting comments
   is February 12, 2002.

                               Flex Your Power

              Lost? View the site map or take the guided tour.

                     Privacy Policy | Web Site Feedback
                Copyright 2001 Judicial Council of California
