http://www2.usmint.gov/foia/



      The United States Mint What's New FAQs Search Mint Tours
      www.usmint.gov                         Serving America Since 1792

                               About The Mint
                               Product Catalog
                                Mint Programs
                               About The Mint
                                  Pressroom
                                Join Our Team
                               Privacy Policy
                               Take Our Survey
                            h.i.p. pocket change

                            Accessibility Cookies


                         Freedom of Information Act



   What is FOIA?
   The U.S. Mint's Major Information Systems
   FOIA Handbook
   Electronic Reading Room
   What is FOIA?

      The Freedom of Information Act (more often referred to as FOIA)
      established a presumption that records of the Executive Branch of the
      United States government are accessible to the public.  This was not
      always the policy regarding federal information disclosure.  Before the
      FOIA in 1966, the burden was on the individual to establish a right to
      examine these government records.

      With the passage of the FOIA, the burden of proof shifted from the
      individual to the government.  Those seeking information are no longer
      required to show a need for information.  Instead, the "need to know"
      standard has now been replaced by a "right to know" standard.  The
      government now has to justify its need for secrecy.

      The FOIA sets standards for determining which records must be made
      available for public inspection and which records can be withheld from
      disclosure.  The law also provides administrative and judicial remedies
      for those denied access to records.  Above all, the statute requires
      federal agencies to provide the fullest possible disclosure of
      information to the public.

      The United States Mint makes available a FOIA Handbook.  This document
      explains how the Mint complies with FOIA.


          Terms of Use   ||   FOIA   ||   Site Map   ||   Contact Us
          Portions © 1998-2001.  The U.S. Mint.  All Rights Reserved.

                     web server   buweb7
                    server time   Jan 30, 2002 @ 10:03:45
                   adjusted now   Jan 30, 2002 @ 13:03:45
