http://vote98.ss.ca.gov/Returns.htm

    CA Secretary of State - Vote98 Home | Must Read | Status | Java |
                                   Feedback

   California Secretary of State
   1998 General Election Returns



   Voter Guide  |   Campaign Finance  |   Late Contributions  |   Election
   Returns  |   Feedback


   Welcome

   Once again, the California Secretary of State's office is pleased to be
   publishing live election night returns on the Internet. On election
   night - November 3, 1998 - we'll be updating our pages every five
   minutes once the polls have closed.

   The initial Election Night Internet project was conducted with the help
   of Digital Equipment Corporation during the 1994 General Election. At
   that time we set a world record for the most traffic on a single web
   site in a 24-hour period. In 1996 we posted the returns for both the
   primary and the general elections.

   This year, working again in cooperation with Digital, we're trying out
   a new experimental Java-based election returns viewer - a new way to
   keep up with the returns throughout the night. We expect to expand on
   this initial effort in the coming election cycles and invite you to
   glimpse the future with us.

   Of course, we will still be reporting the returns on standard HTML web
   pages. We've updated the format, stripped down the graphics for faster
   access, and redesigned the navigation from page-to-page. We've also
   added county-level returns for those of you interested in that level of
   detail.

   We hope you enjoy the site and have a great election night.

   Please address comments and questions to Webmaster@ss.ca.gov.


                               [envelope.gif]

                 Email updates from the Secretary of State.
                                Subscribe Now


      Using This Site

      Required Reading < Read This
      Which Browsers?
      Try the Java Viewer

      Required Reading

      In order to successfully view the election returns, certain options in
      your browser must be set properly. We've prepared a page explaining
      this which you simply Must Read.

      Browsers

      Experience with our Secretary of State Home Page indicates that well
      over 95% of the visitors to our site use version 3.0 or newer of either
      Netscape Navigator or Internet Explorer. This site has been designed
      with that in mind, although advanced features have been avoided to
      accommodate less capable browsers. For your convenience, we have
      provided links here to the Netscape and Microsoft sites where you can
      obtain the latest versions of their software.


   Get Microsoft Internet Explorer Netscape Now

      Try the Java Viewer

      The California Secretary of State, in partnership with Digital
      Equipment Corporation, is pleased to introduce a new Java-based viewer
      for the election returns this year. This Java applet is easily
      customized to continuously display only those races in which you have
      an interest. Once it is running, you can sit back and watch the returns
      for the entire night without touching your computer again. To read
      more, or to use the Java viewer, click on the "Java" link at the top of
      each page.

      También disponible en Español.

      Please let us know what you think of this new innovation.

   Election Returns

   Final, Offical Results

      Final Statement of Vote

      Post-Election Updates

      Summary Report
      The entire election on one page - not pretty, but concise. To print:
   Use "landscape" and set browser fonts smaller.

    Supplement to the
   Statement of Vote
   Contains links to detailed vote counts by county, district and party.

   Election Night
      Semi-official Canvass

   Ballot Measures

      Propositions 1A - 11

   Statewide Offices

      Governor

      Lieutenant Governor

      Secretary of State

      Controller

      Treasurer

      Attorney General

      Insurance Commissioner

      Superintendent of
      Public Instruction

      U.S. Senate

   District Representatives

      Legislative Scoreboard

      Board of Equalization

      U.S. Congress

      State Senate

      State Senate District 9
        special election

      State Assembly

   Judicial Races

      Supreme Court

      Court of Appeals

   ..
