http://www.aesdirect.gov/pclink_terms.html


   [top_100-2.jpg]
   Home
   Getting Started
   . Tour
   . How To Register
   . Registration Form
   . Terms & Conditions
   . Privacy Policy
   Log-In
   . Tutorial & Quiz
   . AESDirect
   Using AESDirect
   . User Guide
   . Support Center
   . Browser Support
   . Developers Center
   . News
   AESPcLink
   . About AESPcLink
   . Getting Started
   . News
   . Download
   . Request CD
   . Terms & Conditions
   Related Sites
   . AES
   . Census Bureau
   . U.S. Customs
   . USATrade.gov
   . Partner Sites
   --- About AESPcLink ---

   COPYRIGHT

   The AESPcLink Software ("Software") is owned by the U.S. Census Bureau
   ("Census") and is protected by the United States copyright laws and
   international treaty provisions. You must treat the Software like any
   other copyrighted material (for example, a book), except that you may
   make a copy for the purposes of loading it onto the hard disk of
   computers of your company as registered in AESDirect. The Software is
   made available free of charge by Census to support usage of the
   AESDirect Service.

   GRANT OF LICENSE

   This AESPcLink license grants you only a non-exclusive right to load
   and use the Software on one or more computers of your company as
   registered in AESDirect. The software is "loaded" onto a computer when
   it is either copied to the permanent memory of the computer (the hard
   disk) or loaded into the temporary memory (RAM), such as when a
   computer runs the software from a network server or a floppy disk.

   Before using AESPcLink to report your export trade transactions, you
   MUST register for and receive a username and password for access to
   AESDirect. See "How to Register" under "Getting Started" in the left
   menu bar.

   RESTRICTIONS

   Modification of the Software is prohibited. In addition, you must not
   rent or lease this Software. You may not decompile or disassemble the
   Software. You may not copy or distribute the Software except as noted
   previously for this company as registered in AESDirect.

   LIMITED WARRANTY AND DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY

   This Software and accompanying written materials (including
   instructions for use) are provided "as is" without warranty of any
   kind. Further, Census does not warrant, guarantee, or make any
   representations regarding the use, or the results of use, of the
   Software or written materials in terms of correctness, accuracy,
   reliability, currentness, or otherwise. You assume the entire risk as
   to the results and performance of the Software.

   The above is the only warranty of any kind, either express or implied,
   including but not limited to the implied warranties of merchantability
   and fitness for a particular purpose, that is made by Census, on this
   Census product. No oral or written information or advice given by
   Census or employees shall create a warranty or in any way increase the
   scope of this warranty and you may not rely on any such information or
   advice.

   Neither Census nor it's contractor which has been involved in the
   creation, production, or delivery of the product shall be liable for
   any direct, indirect, consequential, or incidental damages (including
   damages for loss of business profits, business interruption, loss of
   business information, and the like) arising out of the use or inability
   to use such product even if Census has been advised of the possibility
   of such damages.
   U.S. Census Bureau Foreign Trade Logo U.S. Department of Commerce
