http://www.photolib.noaa.gov/welcome.html

        NOAA Photo Library Banner
        spacer
        Welcome Banner

          The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is the
     descendant of America's oldest science agencies, the Survey of the
     Coast formed in 1807, the Weather Service formed in 1870, and the
     forerunner of today's National Marine Fisheries Service formed in
     1871. The foundation built by these great organizations has given
     rise to an agency whose realm extends from the surface of the sun to
     the bottom of the sea, whose concern for life in the sea extends
     from microscopic creatures to the great whales, and whose reach in
     time extends from thousands of years in the past to decades in the
     future with global change studies and observations. On any given
     day, NOAA ships, buoys, observatories, aircraft, and satellites will
     observe environmental conditions from Arctic to Antarctic. They
     might observe features as diverse as fish stocks, ozone content of
     the atmosphere, sun spots, tornadoes, or coastlines. Or they could
     be engaged in producing warnings and forecasts or producing charts
     and tide tables to help keep the citizens of the United States safe
     in their homes, at their work, or on the seas.

     The NOAA Photo Library has been built so as to capture the work,
     observations, and studies that are carried on by the scientists,
     engineers, commissioned officers, and administrative personnel that
     make up this complex and scientifically diverse agency. It also has
     been built in an attempt to capture NOAA's scientific heritage,
     which is in fact a heritage shared by much of the physical and
     environmental science communities in the United States today. To
     date, over 16,000 images have been digitized and reside in the
     online NOAA Photo Library. This number will continue growing as long
     as there are environmental problems to study and solve, as long as
     the citizens of the United States are threatened by violent weather,
     as long as mariners need nautical charts, and as long as creatures
     of the sea need our protection to survive. Until then, you are
     invited to join NOAA in this photographic essay that spans the
     World's oceans and atmosphere, carries you from the surface of the
     sun to the bottom of the sea, and travels through centuries of
     scientific thought and observations.

        spacer

   line
   Home Button Back to the Main Index Page
   line

     spacer

     line

     Publication of the NOAA Central Library
     Last Updated: 10/23/00

   spacer
