http://www.skillsnetwork.gov/resources.cfm?ID=70

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Welcome

   Meet
   the Skills
   Network

   Find Your State

   Home

   [logo2.jpg]

   Best Practices

   learning



   Links to lists, gateways, databases, and outstanding examples of best
   and promising practices.


   @cademy Online: Distance Education Information

   Distance education news, commentary, best practices and information.

   After-School Programs

   An issue brief from the Urban Health Initiative of the Robert Wood
   Johnson Foundation reviews the data on the effectiveness of
   after-school programs, the variety of programs and principles for best
   practices. (Requires Adobe Acrobat Reader.)

   American Productivity & Quality Center

   The American Productivity & Quality Center (APQC) is a world-renowned
   resource for process and performance improvement for organizations of
   all sizes across all industries. APQC boasts a distinguished list of
   achievements that includes providing private-sector input for the first
   White House Conference on Productivity, spearheading the creation and
   design of the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award in 1987, and
   jointly administering the award for its first three years.

   Americans Communicating Electronically (ACE)

   With a vision for all citizens to be technologically literate in the
   21st century, the ACE program seeks to help Americans gain better
   access to information and resources through the Internet. Find
   information on this initiative as well links to information, resources,
   and funding.

   Appalachian Regional Development

   Objectives: To create opportunities for self-sustaining economic
   development and an improved quality of life for the people of
   Appalachia through joint Federal-State-local efforts; to stimulate
   investments in public services and facilities that will attract private
   sector investments and result in accelerated social and economic
   development; to help establish a set of institutions capable of
   permanently directing the long-term development of the Region; and on a
   joint Federal-State-local basis, to develop comprehensive plans and
   programs to help accomplish the overall objectives of Appalachian
   development.

   Arkansas Adult Leraning Resource Center

   The Arkansas Adult Learning Resource Center (AALRC) assists the
   Arkansas adult learning community providing services to adults, and
   serves as a link between the National Institute for Literacy and the
   Arkansas adult learning and literacy community.

   Best Practices in Community Development

   The John J. Gunther Blue Ribbon Practices from the U. S. Department of
   Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Includes searchable database for
   job training, workforce skills, workforce development and more.

   California Distance Learning Project

   The California Distance Learning Project has been created to usher in a
   new era of distance learning. For many years, most distance education
   has focused on one- or two-way communications through video and
   television. Emerging technologies have opened up other avenues for
   distance learning delivery. This project focuses on using communication
   through computers as a vehicle for student and teacher interaction. The
   project goal is to increase access to adult basic learning services.
   The objective is to help lay the groundwork for a California adult
   basic education distance learning infrastructure.

   Capitol Region Education Council

   CREC: A Regional Educational Service Center created to improve the
   quality of public education.

   Career Zone

   CareerZone is a career exploration system that was designed for middle
   and high school students by the New York State Department of Labor with
   a grant from the United States Department of Labor. The CareerZone
   Homepage is hosted by the eXploring Careers group at Cornell
   University.

   Center for Community Change

   CCC helps poor people to improve their communities and change policies
   and institutions that affect their lives by developing their own strong
   organizations.

   CLASS- Online Learning

   CLASS (Communications, Learning and Assessment in a Student-centered
   System) is a dynamically student-centered learning environment
   delivered via the World Wide Web. Using innovative technology, the
   CLASS Project maximizes student learning through the use of moving
   imagery, graphics, sound and text within a seamless navigational system
   that encourages individualized discovery and learning

   Communities and Communications Technology

   Best Practices from the Benton Foundation, including innovative uses of
   communications technology, lessons learned, a toolkit and related
   resources.

   Community Technology Centers

   The purpose of the Community Technology Centers program is to promote
   the development of model programs that demonstrate the educational
   effectiveness of technology in urban and rural areas and economically
   distressed communities. These Community Technology Centers would
   provide access to information technology and related learning services
   to children and adults.

   Community Technology Strategic Plans


   Connect for Kids

   Multi-media project that helps adults make their communities better
   places for families and children

   Connecting People and Commnunities to the Information Superhighway

   Guidance and success stories in gathering and using the four essential
   components of a successful project to connect a community to the
   Information Superhighway: leadership, technology, training and
   development, and content.

   CORD Online

   Whether developing curricula, delivering professional development
   workshops, creating new applications of technology, conducting applied
   educational research, or facilitating education and employer
   partnerships, the non-profit organization CORD strives to empower
   educators to make meaningful connections between school and work for
   the benefit of students. To accomplish this mission, CORD assists
   educators in schools and colleges in three areas: curriculum
   development, professional development, and Tech Prep leadership.

   County Leadership Network


   DIGITAL DIVIDE

   Computers are increasingly conditioning the kind of country we live in.
   DIGITAL DIVIDE shines a light on the role computers play in widening
   social gaps throughout our society, particularly among young people. By
   providing equitable and meaningful access to technology we can ensure
   that all children step into the 21st Century together.

   Digital Divide Network

   Great links to best practices, funding sources and more to tackle the
   growing gap between those who have access to technology and information
   skills and those who do not, with a focus on the role of community
   partnerships in bridging this divide.

   eBay Foundation

   We support organizations that provide tools, hope, and direction to
   those who seek new skills. They "teach the teachers", who in turn help
   people recognize the potential in themselves to improve their
   surroundings, their lives, and their communities

   Georgia GIS Data Clearinghouse

   The purpose of the Clearinghouse is to collect, document, format, and
   publish GIS information collected by multiple agencies of Georgia state
   government. A great model!

   Gwinnett Neighborhood Leadership Institute

   This institute trains, empowers and supports ordinary citizens and
   community leaders so that they can promote positive changes in our
   neighborhoods and communities.

   Illinois Literacy Development Resource Center

   The Illinois Literacy Resource Development Center is dedicated to
   improving literacy policy and practice at the local, state and national
   levels.The Illinois Literacy Resource Development Center (ILRDC) is a
   non-profit organization supporting literacy and adult education efforts
   throughout Illinois and the nation. One key to its success has been its
   ability to build partnerships among the organizations, individuals and
   agencies working in the literacy arena - from the local to the national
   level.

   Institute on Education and the Economy

   The Institute on Education and the Economy (IEE) is an
   interdisciplinary policy research center that focuses its attention on
   the interaction between education and the economy. The Institute
   analyzes the relationship between changes in the economy and the need
   to for a fundamental rethinking of our educational system. A new way of
   looking at accountability in our educational system. IEE conducts a
   rigorous program of research and policy analysis and provides
   intellectual leadership on the implications of changes in the economy
   and labor markets for all levels of our education and training systems.

   Jobs for the Future

   At Jobs for the Future, we believe that this is a challenge to the
   fabric of the American commonwealth. It demands reform along three
   dimensions: Impact: making a real difference in people's lives;
   Sustainability: producing change that lasts; and Scale:moving models to
   the mainstream.

   Keeping Schools Open as Community Learning Centers

   Keeping schools open longer before and after school, and during the
   summer can turn schools into Community Learning Centers. By keeping
   school doors open during non-traditional school hours, the school
   provides students, parents, and the community with access to valuable
   educational resources. A Community Learning Center housed in the
   community school can be a safe after-school and summer haven for
   children, where learning takes place in a building removed from the
   violence, drugs, and lack of supervision of children that permeate some
   communities in America. This guidebook outlines the steps needed to
   successfully convert a school into a community learning center and
   lists resources for further information and assistance.

   Learning Anytime Anywhere Partnerships (LAAP)

   LAAP is a grant program for innovative and nationally significant
   distance education projects. Here you will find descriptions of newly
   funded partnerships.

   Local Partnerships and Collaborations

   This U.S. Department of Labor web report contains detailed profiles of
   local partnerships among welfare and workforce development agencies and
   features highlighted practices in helping welfare customers achieve
   self-sufficiency.

   Mapping and Leveraging the County Network


   Maryland Community Colleges' Business Training Network (MCC BTN)

   Maryland Community Colleges' Business Training Network (MCC BTN) is a
   network of the sixteen community colleges in the State of Maryland. We
   provide Maryland businesses with one central site which connects to all
   the training opportunities in the State.

   Mobile Instructional Technology Laboratory

   A highway trailer mounted on an eighteen-wheel chassis carries a
   sophisticated instructional technology laboratory, preparing Alachua
   County (Florida) students for the information age of the 21st Century.
   An innovative solution for a community lacking an IT infrastructure.

   National Center for Research in Vocational Education

   NCRVE is the nation's largest center for research, development,
   dissemination, and outreach in work-related education. The presence of
   NCRVE or one of its members in nearly every region of the country puts
   it in contact with the enormous diversity of educational institutions
   and labor markets in the United States. It also connects NCRVE with
   practitioners in each geographic region of the country.

   National Clearinghouse for ESL Literacy Education

   The National Clearinghouse for ESL Literacy Education (NCLE), the only
   national information center focusing on the language and literacy
   education of adults and out-of-school youth learning English, works to
   support those providing such services. For over ten years, NCLE has
   provided information on adult ESL literacy education to teachers and
   tutors, program directors, researchers, and policymakers interested in
   the education of refugees, immigrants, and other U.S. residents whose
   native language is other than English. This population includes adults
   who are low-literate and low-skilled, as well as those who are more
   educated but need to improve their English language skills.

   National Governors Association & NGA Center for Best Practices

   NGA is the only bipartisan national organization of, by, and for the
   nations' governors. Through NGA, the governors identify priority issues
   and address public policy and governance issues at both the national
   and state levels. A current focus is the Workforce Investment Act and
   Welfare Reform.

   Ohio Works

   A Comprehensive state-wide workforce website. Search available jobs,
   post resumes, evaluate job and business data, even find links to
   registered child care and transportation services. Also includes
   valuable employment and business data.

   Pennsylvanias PowerPortal

   The PowerPort brings you instant, comprehensive access to e-services
   from the state of Pennsylvania.

   Plan for Integrating Programs


   Promising Practices Network

   Created by the California and Colorado Foundations for Families, the
   Georgia Academy and the Missouri Family Investment Trust, this site
   highlights promising practices for strong communities and organizes
   them by outcomes.

   Real Life/ Reality Check

   A best practice in youth development form the University of Tennessee
   at Knoxville Agricultural Extension

   School Improvement in Maryland

   This Web site has been created to help schools analyze their state
   assessment data and guide them in making data-based instructional
   decisions that would support improved performance for all students.

   School to Work Best Practices

   Searchable "Examples that Work!" database was created to share ideas,
   inspiration, and information from the field to the field.

   SEBP's Job Vacancy Survey

   A description of the Southeast Business Partnership's (Colorado) tactic
   for matching their training curriculum with local employer demand.
   Southeast Business Partnership Homepage

   Serving Families Through TANF Funds

   States are finding creative uses for Temporary Assistance for Needy
   Families (TANF) funds to support families. This National Governors'
   Association (NGA) Issue Brief gives examples and helpful hints for
   administrators, including ways to fund familiy literacy and workplace
   skills training for needy families.

   Simply Better!

   A public-private learning network on continuous improvement for
   workforce organizations. Look here for tools, programs, guidebooks.

   State and Local Gateway

   Highly organized and easily accessible state, county and local
   information on govenrment services, grants, best practices,
   partnerships and tools on a wide range of topics.

   State and Local Gateway Best Practices

   The U. S. State & Local Gateway links to lists and databases of best
   practices in many topic areas, including economic development.

   State of Indiana-Local Transportation Grant

   Funds from the Indiana state government to create two bodies that will
   stimulate and support the creation of locally driven transportation
   solutions.

   Technology and Adult Literacy

   The Harnessing Technology Web pages help adult literacy education
   (ABE/GED/ESL/ESOL) teachers and learners to use computers, television,
   audio and video cassettes, and other electronic technology to help
   solve learning and instructional problems. The Web pages grow and
   improve as practitioners and learners describe problems and contribute
   good solutions which use technology. Problems and solutions which are
   unattributed are those of David J. Rosen. The most recent ones are
   marked with a icon.

   Teens Map city characteristics, learn marketable skills

   This article describes a broad public/partnership that uses GIS mapping
   technologies to enhance both youth and economic development.

   The Georgia Academy

   This organization is an example of promising practices that enhance the
   competency, skills and knowledge of service providing professionals
   that produce measurable results.

   Tools of the Trade

   From the U. S. Department of Labor, training and resources for
   professional development, including workforce issues and management
   skills

   U. S. Department of Labor's Resources for the Training Community

   Links to resources for the workforce development community

   Washington States Eligibility Calculator

   This site, a best practice, allows Washington State residents to check
   their eligibility for state Social and Health Services online with a
   quick and easy form.

   Welfare 2 Work: Ideas that Work

   From the U. S. Department of Labor, here are links to practical,
   innovative, user-friendly, technical assistance discussions and
   summaries for local practitioners implementing Welfare-to-Work grants.

   Western District Career Youth Summit


   Youth Employment: Lessons Learned

   Successful practices and lessons learned from 51 effective youth
   employment programs.

   Youth Entrepeneurship


   Text Only | Admin | Talk With Us | Privacy Statement | Home
