http://sustaincoasts.nos.noaa.gov/coastal_comms.html


Sailboats

         Coastal Communities

         For healthy coasts, we must foster well-planned and revitalized coastal
         communities that sustain coastal economies, are compatible with the
         natural environment, minimize the risks from natural hazards, and
         provide access to coastal resources for the public's use and enjoyment.

   A wide range of economic activities occurs along the coast, including,
   tourism, shipping, fishing, oil and gas production, and services for
   coastal residents. Every coastal community is different with some
   experiencing intense new development, and others seeking to revitalize
   derelict waterfront areas and replace declining industries with new
   economic opportunities. The challenge is to balance competing
   priorities while fostering both economic and environmental health.

   One of the keys to economic and environmental health for coastal
   communities is careful planning for development or redevelopment.
   Maintaining the health of economically important resources like
   fisheries and clean swimming beaches is critical. It is essential that
   state and particularly local decisionmakers have good information about
   the importance of coastal resources to their economies. It is also
   important for them to have information on the latest land-use planning
   techniques and the legal issues that surround land-use planning.

   In addition, coastal areas are prone to threats from storms,
   hurricanes, typhoons, tsunamis, and coastal erosion and flooding.
   Losses of life and property from coastal storms are greatly affected by
   how well communities have planned for such hazards. In short, the
   health of coastal economies and the lifesyles they afford depend on
   well-planned, sustainable development and healthy coastal resources.

   [hurricane2.gif]

   highrises

   wrecked house

   Hurricane Erin

   Ocean City, MD

   Cargo Ships

                  Population: Distribution, Density, Growth

                   Reducing the Impacts of Coastal Hazards

                       Population and Natural Hazards

                         Managing Coastal Resources

               Preserving Waterfronts for Water Dependent Uses

     Sustain Healthy Coasts Main Page | Coastal Habitats | Clean Coastal
                                   Waters

                                [gullsm.gif]
