http://www.boston.feb.gov/newfeb/aboutus/aboutus.html

   Abolut Gbfeb logo

                                    Home

                                  About FEB

                                 Contact Us

                                  Hot News

                                 Newsletters

                                  FEB Memos

                           Local Federal Services

                                Related Links

                               Privacy Policy

                      Of Interest to Federal Community

                           FEB Programs/Committees

                                [acrobat.gif]

   Link to download PDF viewer (req. for viewing website in its entirety)



     "Although each executive agency and its field organization have a
     special mission, there are many matters on which the work of the
     departments converge. Among them are management and budgetary
     procedures, personnel policies, recruitment efforts, office
     information duties, and similar matters. There are opportunities to
     pool experience and resources, and to accomplish savings. In
     substantive programs there are also opportunities for a more closely
     coordinated approach in many activities."

                          President John F. Kennedy
                                     1961

     The Federal Executive Boards (FEB's) were established in 1961 by a
     Presidential Directive to improve coordination among Federal
     activities and programs outside Washington. The need for effective
     coordination among the field activities of Federal departments and
     agencies was then, and is still, very clear. Approximately 84
     percent of all Federal employees work outside the national capital
     area. Decisions affecting the expenditure of billions of dollars are
     made in the field. Federal programs have their impact largely
     through the actions of field representatives of the departments and
     agencies. In addition, Federal officials outside Washington are the
     principal contact of the Federal Government with the citizens of
     this country.

     To this end, the FEB's perform highly valuable functions. They
     provide:
     * a forum for the exchange of information between Washington and the
       field about programs, management strategies, and administrative
       challenges;
     * a point of coordination for the development and operation of
       Federal programs having common characteristics;
     * a means of communication through which Washington can strengthen
       field understanding and support of management initiatives and
       concerns; and
     * Federal representation and involvement within their communities.

     The FEB's implement these functions under the direction of the
     Office of Personnel Management. Examples of their activities are:
     * Presidential initiatives on customer service, career transition,
       and reinventing government;
     * the sharing of technical knowledge and resources in procurement,
       personnel management, information technology, and similar commonly
       beneficial activities;
     * implementation of the local Combined Federal Campaign;
     * the pooling of resources to provide, as efficiently as possible,
       and at
       the least possible cost to the taxpayers, common services such as
       training courses, employee assistance programs, child care centers,
       blood donor programs, and savings bond drives encouragement of
       employee initiative and better performance through special
       recognition and other incentive programs;
     * emergency operations, such as under hazardous weather conditions;
       responding to blood donation needs; and communicating related leave
       policies; and
     * recognition of the service of American veterans and dissemination
       of information relating to programs and benefits available for
       veterans in the Federal service.

     CLICK HERE FOR OTHER FEDERAL EXECUTIVE BOARD (FEB) SITES:

                      National FEB Site
                         Seattle, WA
                       Los Angeles, CA
                        Honolulu, HI
                         Denver, CO
                    Albuquerque, Santa Fe
                        Minnesota, MI
                       Kansas City, KS
                      Oklahoma City, OK
                    Dallas/Ft. Worth, TX
                       San Antonio, TX
                                            Houston, TX
                                          New Orleans, LO
                                            Chicago, IL
                                           Cleveland, OH
                                          Cincinnati, OH
                                            Atlanta, GA
                                            Buffalo, NY
                                         Philadelphia, PA
                                          Pittsburgh, PA
                                            Boston, MA
                                           Baltimore, MD

     In cities where FEB's do not exist, another organization of local
     principal Federal agency officials often exists. These organizations
     are generally entitled Federal Executive Associations or Councils,
     and have purposes and objectives similar to FEB's. They do not,
     however, function within the same formal set of parameters (e.g.,
     officially established by Presidential Memorandum, policy direction
     and guidance from the Office of Personnel Management, etc.) as do
     the FEB's.

     The Federal Executive Board network continues to be a constructive,
     unifying force within the Federal Government. In the course of its
     36 year history, the FEB system has more than proved its value in
     ensuring a clear and effective communications medium between all
     levels of government.

     In cities where FEB's do not exist, another organization of local
     principal Federal agency officials often exists. These organizations
     are generally entitled Federal Executive Associations or Councils,
     and have purposes and objectives similar to FEB's. They do not,
     however, function within the same formal set of parameters (e.g.,
     officially established by Presidential Memorandum, policy direction
     and guidance from the Office of Personnel Management, etc.) as do
     the FEB's.

     Constitution & By-laws
     Summary of Proceedings from FEB '2001 National Conference
