http://www.graysreef.nos.noaa.gov/research.html

   C


   [grnms.jpeg]

   General Information

   research

   education

   Shades of Gray

   Jane Yarn Cruise Reports

   buoy data

   Sanctuary Advisory Council

   local news and other sites

   underwater pictures

   sanctuaries homepagehomepage









                           Gray's Reef Banner Moray Eel

                                 Research Overview

      Current Research Projects

        * Current Research and Site Characterization
        * Gray's Reef NOAA Ship Ferrel Cruise Reports
        * Sessile Invertebrate Fauna Identification
        * Common Fish Identification Guide



   History

      Gray's Reef was first extensively studied by scientists in 1961 while
             surveying the nearshore area off the University of Georgia's
             Marine Institute on Sapelo Island, Georgia. The first systematic
             collection from Grays's Reef, the Gray Collection, is housed at
             the University of Georgia, Athens. In 1974, J.L.Hunt Jr. studied
             its geology and origin, 1978 C.D. Harris reported resident fish
             populations, 1981 the South Carolina Marine Resources Research
             Institute and Georgia Department of Natural Resources studied
             living marine resources, and 1981 Bureau of Lands Management,
             and Searles made limited seaweed collections. Since January
             1981, funded research has been directed principally towards
             management implications. Studies such as:

        * -Geological history of Gray's Reef
        * -Effects on Roller Trawling on A Hard Bottom Community
        * -A video transect method for estimating reef fish abundance
        * -Current Velocity Measurements at Gray's Reef NMS
        * -1983 Overflight Summary Report: Visitor Use at Gray's Reef NMS
        * -Field and Laboratory seaweed guide
        * -Field guide to the fishes of Gray's Reef

      The Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary (GRNMS) Management Plan
      developed in 1983, outlined strategies for the effective management of
      the areas resources. A stated goal of the plan is to promote and
      coordinate research to enhance scientific understanding of the
      sanctuary and improve management decision Oyster Toad fish making. A
      main objective to achieve this was implementing of a resource studies
      plan based on existing knowledge of live bottom ecosystems and evolving
      management issues. This plan is outlined in the 1983 document and has
      provided the outlined areas of research needs since implementing the
      plan.
      The Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary recognizes the importance of
      long term monitoring to understand and recognize the health and status
      of the significant resources found in the sanctuary. Long term
      monitoring of the resources also serves the management concerns of
      other state and federal agencies as Gray's Reef is one of the largest
      natural live-bottom reefs in the South Atlantic Bight (SAB) and serves
      as a good indicator of overall live bottom health here. The need for
      information on fisheries resources is especially evident as catches of
      snapper and grouper have declined 50% since 1980 in the SAB.

   Current Research and Plans

      In recognition of the need and value of long term monitoring for sound
      management decision making and evaluating the effectiveness of these
      decisions, GRNMS began long term monitoring of fisheries resources in
      1993. This is accomplished through the assistance of the Marine
      Assessment Monitoring and Prediction (MARMAP) program conducted by the
      South Carolina Marine Resources Research Institute. Survey's have been
      conducted annually since 1993.
      In 1995 Gray's Reef initiated a long term monitoring assessment of its
      natural resources. The ROV Picture monitoring program encompasses the
      following resources and topics of concern determined to be of
      significant importance to GRNMS during the planning of the designation
      and subsequent establishment of the management and research studies
      plan; Fish populations, benthic invertebrates, oceanographic
      conditions, sediment transport and visitor use. 32 permanent reference
      points were established and marked with numbered goat ear tags mounted
      on 1m stainless steel rods. The study site has a 250 meter extent in
      water depth of about 60 feet. Assessments began as two comprehensive
      sampling efforts are studied seasonally and will provide a picture of
      seasonal changes in reef fish abundance measures. Additionally these
      survey's are supplemented with diver video assessments. This technique
      was developed by Dr. Richard O. Parker of the National Marine Fisheries
      Service in 1986 and is still in use today to monitor the status of reef
      fish in the sanctuary.
      To supplement these fishery monitoring efforts with long term
      monitoring of invertebrate populations by photo-quadrat and physical
      oceanographic conditions such as temperature started in 1995. May of
      1997, data buoy 41008, from the National Data Buoy Center (NDBC), was
      placed within Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary boundaries
      (31*24'00"N, 80*52'30"W). The buoy records real time data including:
      speed and gust; air and sea temperature; and wave energy spectra from
      which significant wave height, dominant wave period, and average wave
      period are derived. Through the collection of this data GRNMS will be
      able to provide up to date reports on the status of the health of the
      sanctuaries resources to the public through education and outreach
      programs as well as to resource management agencies at both state and
      federal levels.

      Site characterization studies to map the bottom of the ocean, such as
      sidescan sonar and bathymetry have also been collected at Gray's Reef
      by the United States Geological Survey in 1994. Gray's Reef has also
      used Remotely Operated Vehicles to verify the sidescan data and have a
      visual record of all the areas within the sanctuary.

   Loggerhead Sea Turtle Satellite Tagging Project

      Follow "Humpty Dumpty" Loggerhead Sea Turtle from Septmeber 98
      -Novemeber 99.

      GRNMS Sea Turtle Satellite Tagging Project will utilize satellite
      transmitter tags to monitor adult and juvenile Loggerhead Sea Turtle
      behavior and movement in the South Atlantic Bight. Specifically
      parameters including turtle's position, time, and depth will be
      electronically collected and transmitted via satellite simultaneously
      to scientists at GRNMS. Two transmitters have been attached to offshore
      turtles captured within Gray's Reef and three transmitters have been
      attached to nesting loggerhead turtles in Wassaw Island and Blackbeard
      Island, Georgia. Future plans are to place 3 transmitters on
      loggerheads captured at Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary.

      Real time satellite data from the three loggerhead turtles, "Isabelle",
      "Annie", and "Aerial", tagged by Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary
      staff can be seen on the WhaleNet server.

   Archeological Findings in Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary

      Research efforts led by Dr. Erv Garrison, University of Georgia marine
      archeologist, is attempting to document the reefs' existence above sea
      level some 15,000 years ago when Georgia's shoreline extended more than
      60 miles eastward. Click here for more information and findings on this
      research.


   Research Summaries and Abstracts

        * Pleistocene/Holocene Sea Level Changes in the Georgia Bight
        * Evaluation of Sampling Techniques for Long Term Monitoring of Hard
          Bottom Reef Fish Assemblages in the South Atlantic Bight by Lt.
          David Score
        * Monitoring Summary
        * Sessile Invertebrate Colonization and Community Development on Hard
          Substrate Similar to the Natural Hard Bottom in the South Atlantic
        * Loggerhead Sea Turtle (Caretta caretta) Satellite Tagging Project
        * Geoarcheology in the Georgia Bight: A Study of Gray's Reef National
          Marine Sanctuary (NOAA) and J Reef, Georgia


                            Back to the Top of the Page
