http://www.education.nasa.gov/ednetwork.html

   NASA

   Return to NASA Education Home

   Search

   Site Map

   Comments and Information

   NASA Privacy Statement

   Networking with NASA People
     * NASA Education Program Contacts - provides names and contact
       information for NASA Education representatives at all of NASA's
       Field Centers.
     * NASA Strategic Enterprise Education Contacts
          + Aerospace Technology Education/Public Outreach - NASA
            Aeronautics and the aviation and educational communities are
            partners in developing materials to stimulate student interest
            and enthusiasm for science and mathematics. By augmenting
            learning environments with ideas and experiences that use
            mathematics and science, they share with students and
            educators the excitement of how these tools can be used, and
            their power to change the world.
          + Biological and Physical Research - The Office of Life and
            Microgravity Sciences and Applications (OLSMA) has been
            restructured to strengthen the agency's ability to meet the
            challenges brought about by the growth in areas such as
            molecular biology, nanotechnology, information technology and
            genomics.
          + Earth Science Education/Public Outreach - The Earth Science
            program is NASA's contribution to developing a vastly improved
            understanding of the Earth. The program is designed to address
            the most fundamental uncertainties and questions associated
            with the global environment. The unique vantage point of space
            provides information about the Earth's air, land, water, and
            life-and the interactions among them-that is not available
            using any other means.
          + Human Exploration and Development of Space - The mission of
            the Enterprise is to open the space frontier by exploring,
            using and enabling the development of space and to expand the
            human experience into the far reaches of space. The enterprise
            is managed jointly by the following two offices:
               o Human Space Flight - programs provide safe, assured
                 transportation to and from space for people and payloads,
                 and develop and operate habitable space facilities in
                 order to enhance scientific knowledge, support technology
                 development, and enable commercial activity.
          + Space Science Education/Public Outreach "Ecosystem" - An
            integral element of the Office of Space Science education and
            public outreach strategy is the establishment of an
            "Ecosystem" or network for space science to foster a wide
            variety of highly leveraged education and public outreach
            activities, which will be disseminated across the country.
            Individuals wishing further information on space science
            related education and public outreach materials, activities,
            and opportunities to develop or participate in OSS sponsored
            education and public outreach activities should consult one of
            the OSS Brokers/Facilitators or Forums found on this website.
     * The NASA State Directory - provides contact information for NASA
       related programs, resources, and alliances within each of the 50
       United States, and the territories of Guam, Puerto Rico, and the
       Virgin Islands.
     * How to Request a NASA Speaker - Members of the public interested in
       having a NASA representative address their groups can request an
       appearance by an astronaut or by a NASA scientist, engineer or
       administrative staff member.
          + How to Request an Urban and Rural Community Enrichment Program
            (URCEP) - serves America's education community by enhancing
            awareness and understanding of the scientific and
            technological advances growing out of NASA's missions of
            research, discovery and exploration.
          + How to Request a Urban Community Enrichment Program - is a
            NASA Aerospace Education Services Program specifically
            designed to serve middle school students in communities to
            interesting and broadening educational activities.

   Programs
     * A Guide to NASA's Education Programs - is a searchable database
       with brief descriptions of NASA's Education Programs, including
       points of contact, admission criteria, location, content areas, and
       financial support for all of NASA's Field Centers.
     * The NASA Subject Index - is an access point for NASA WWW
       information organized by subject. The subject catagories follow
       those used by NASA's Scientific & Technical Information Program
       (except for the additional "Microgravity" subject category).
       However, due to the rapid growth of the Internet it is subject to
       frequent changes and updates.
     * NASA Lunar-Meteorite Sample Loan Program - Informal educators can
       be certified to borrow lunar and meteorite materials by attending a
       training seminar on security requirements and proper handling
       procedures. The same certification applies to lunar and meteorite
       samples. These briefings are given by NASA staff at locations
       around the country.
     * The NASA History Program - Search through NASA's reference
       documentation on major aeronautics and astronautics programs, in
       addition to information about key NASA and NACA (1915-1958)
       officials, policy documents, statistics, our timeline of air and
       space achievements, as well as current events in NASA History, the
       current issue of "NASA History News & Notes," and other related
       NASA Publications.
     * The NASA Personal Property Disposal Program - Each year the Federal
       agencies of the United States generate billions of dollars worth of
       excess, surplus and\or exchange/sale personal property no longer
       needed by the original acquiring activity. The Federal Government
       owned property generally goes through three major stages of
       disposal. You can find out more about how you, your business,
       school, etc. can obtain this property by following the links below
       which describe the various disposal programs.
     * The NASA Technology Portal - If you've ever wanted to know more
       about emerging technologies and technology challenges at NASA,
       you'll now find them conveniently collected in one place -- the
       NASA Technology Portal. The easy-to-use interface is a gateway
       offering a look into the core of NASA's technology development and
       technology transfer programs. Users can capitalize on technologies
       developed by NASA, explore opportunities to develop new
       technologies with NASA, or learn what unsolved aerospace challenges
       NASA faces and propose technologies to meet them.
     * NASA's Commercial Technology Network - encompasses organizations
       throughout the U.S. that are sponsored by, and affiliated with, the
       NASA Commercial Technology Program. These organizations provide
       unique expertise and services to U.S. enterprises to facilitate and
       assist the transfer, development and commercialization of
       NASA-sponsored technology. The network includes the Commercial
       Technology Program offices at NASA headquarters and field centers;
       specialized technology transfer/commercialization centers and
       services; and other affiliated organizations and services.
     * NASA's Scientific & Technical Information Program - As the official
       Scientific & Technical Information broker for NASA, the STI Program
       provides the NASA community with desktop access to Scientific &
       Technical Information produced by NASA and the world's aerospace
       community. They also provide the aerospace community and the
       general public access to the intellectual scientific and technical
       information output and achievements of NASA.
     * NASA Office of Procurement and NASA Acquisition Internet Service
       (NAIS) - is a service, from which industry has immediate access to
       current acquisition information over the Internet. The NAIS is a
       collection of on-line servers operated at each NASA field
       installation, and all are interconnected to ease the vendor's
       access to all NASA acquisitions. Synopses, solicitations, award
       notices, acquisition forecasts, regulations, forms, and small
       business assistance are posted.
          + NASA Acquisition Forecast - It is NASA policy to prepare an
            annual forecast and a semiannual update of expected  contract
            opportunities, or classes of contract opportunities, for each
            fiscal year. The forecast consolidates anticipated
            procurements (in excess of the simplified acquisition
            threshold) at each NASA Center with the aim of increasing
            industries' advance knowledge of NASA requirements and to
            enhance competition. This forecast is subject to revision
            or cancellation, and is for Government planning purposes only.
            You are urged to review the Commerce Business Daily and the
            NASA Acquisition Internet Service for the actual notice of a
            pending contract action.

   GENERAL INFORMATION

     * Information about NASA Visitors Center and Tours - The general
       public is welcome to visit and tour many NASA installations. Some
       NASA Centers operate their own visitors centers, and others have
       contractual arrangements with private firms. Admission fees are
       charged at some sites. To check on hours, admission and tour
       availability, visit these Web pages.
     * NASA Products and Services Source List - This page provides access
       to: NASA Information - NASA Publications - NASA Educational
       Programs - NASA Television - Spacecraft Models - Airplane Models
       and Model Rocket Sales - Space Suit Information - Stamps - Coins -
       Medals - Photography - Space-Type Freeze-Dehydrated Foods - Solar
       System Information - Charts - Astronomy Briefs - Maps -
       Planets/Satellites - Satellite Imagery and Aerial Photos of the
       Earth - Landsat Earth Imagery and Digital Products - Video - Audio
       - Planetariums & Observations - Public Interest Space Groups -
       Other Space Agencies.
     * NASA Acronym Dictionary - NASA has their own abbreviations that are
       difficult for the general public to interpret. When you run across
       one, look it up in the NASA Acronym List.
     * Technical Terminology Dictionary - Having trouble with technical
       terms? Look it up in the Dictionary of Technical Terms for
       Aerospace Use.
     * Other Sources of NASA Information - If you still have not found
       what you are looking for, you might want to try this option.

              NASA Education Program | NASA Home | NASA Centers
        NASA Strategic Enterprises | NASA Center Education Web Sites
