http://chems.alaska.gov/ems_list_servers.htm


   Text Links List || Health Social Services >  Public Health >  Community
                      Health Emergency Medical Services
                                      .


 Juneau Office
410 Willoughby
   Room 109
  Box 110616
Juneau, Alaska
   99811-0616
(907) 465-3027
 465-4101 FAX

                                           logo graphic
                          Community Health and Emergency Medical Services

                                                                                        Anchorage Office
                                                                                        Anchorage, Alaska
                                                                                              99501
                                                                                         (907) 278-3456


            EMS List Servers
   Emergency Medical Services Programs



                                             Search CHEMS

                                         Program Descriptions

   Site Feedback Form

   EMS Contacts

   EMS Downloads

   EMS for Children

   Training Schedule

   EMS Links

   Site Menu

   CHEMS Home





   Subscribing to the EMS List Servers

      12/17/2001 08:39 PM

      picture of computer There's a new way to subscribe to the Alaska EMS
      List Servers.  Just follow the links below to add your name to the list
      server:

      Several "list servers" are on-line for line for use by emergency
      medical services personnel. A list server allows individuals who have
      internet e-mail accounts to subscribe to a particular list. After
      subscribing to a list, new mail in that list is automatically echoed to
      the user's internet mail account. The FEMA list server, for example,
      distributes disaster situation reports to subscribers resulting in near
      real time notification of interested parties.

      There are many potential uses for this service. We can, for example,
      send training schedules, public notices, weekly reports,
      questionnaires, and other information to subscribers. Subscribers could
      include physicians, regions, subregions, EMS and fire services, and any
      other internet user. Whether there are 10 users or 1,000, the list
      server will handle the message distribution automatically.

      Individuals and agencies providing EMS and Fire service training in
      Alaska are encouraged to use the ak-ems list server to advertise
      courses. The course announcements should be brief, and should contain
      the dates, times, locations, cost, prerequisites, and registration
      procedures, as well as other relevant pieces of information.

      As a general rule, an individual must be a member of a list to
      distribute mail through the list.  This prevents the group from
      receiving "spam" messages.


                 Alaska EMS Program Internet Lists - Summary
   List Name Purpose To Send Mail
   ak-ems General information about EMS in Alaska, including training
   schedules, news releases, CME Opportunities, and job openings.
   ak-ems@list.state.ak.us
   ak-response Used exclusively for distribution by CHEMS of RESPONSE: EMS
   Alaska newsletter. N/A
   ak-prev Information about statewide injury prevention activities.
   ak-prev@list.state.ak.us
   ak-emsc Information about Alaska Emergency Medical Services for
   Children Programs. ak-emsc@list.state.ak.us
   ak-edoc Information and dialogue about emergency medical services
   medical direction. ak-edoc@list.state.ak.us
   ak-data Information about the evolving statewide EMS Data Collection
   System ak-data@list.state.ak.us
   ak-poison Information about the enhancement of poison control resources
   in Alaska.  ak-poison@list.state.ak.us
   ak-emd Information and discussion
   about Emergency Medical
   Dispatch issues ak-emd@list.state.ak.us
   ak-cism Information and discussion
   of non-confidential
   information related to
   critical incident stress
   management and CISD. ak-cism@list.state.ak.us
   ak-emsinst Information and discussion about EMS Instructor issues in
   Alaska.  The list will be used primarily to distribute information to
   and among EMS instructors. ak-emsinst@list.state.ak.us

   A list of national list servers can be found at the site of the
   National Center for Emergency Medicine Informatics (NCEMI).  The page
   allows easy subscription to several of the major national lists.

                                     TOP


                    Emergency Medical Services  Programs

              Click HERE For Information on 9/11/2001 Tragedies


   EMS What's New                          EMS Contacts
   EMS Funding, Billing, and Reimbursement Training Info and Schedules
   Letters of Solicitation                 Discussion Forum
   EMS Downloads                           EMS for Children
   Certification Database                  Comfort One-DNR
   Out of State Applicants                 EMS AED
   EMS List Servers                        Alaska Council on EMS
   EMS Medical Directors                   EMS Data Collection
   Trauma Registry                         Technical Assistance Team
   Alaska EMS Symposia                     Links to Great EMS Sites
   Alaska EMS Awards                       AK EMS Directory
   Subscribe to RESPONSE: EMS Alaska       EMS Photo Gallery
   RESPONSE Newsletters                    On-Line Surveys
   Injury Prevention                       Poison Control
   Continuing Medical Education Guidelines Search CH EMS Web Site
   Alaska Health and Social Services       Alaska Public Health
   EMS Week                                Physician Medical Director Resources
   EMS Instructors


                                     TOP

                  Primary Care & Health Promotion Programs


   Cardiovascular Health   Community Based Health Promotion
   AHELP Alaska Health Education Library Project Tobacco Prevention and
   Control
   Alaskan Exposure Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey
   Alaska Primary Care Office (PCO) Rural Hospital Flexibility Program
   Health Alert Network Telemedicine
   Contacts
   CHEMS home Search CH EMS

   Alaska Health Social Services Alaska Public Health
