http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_1206doves.htm

   [bar1.jpg]

   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   [bar1.jpg]
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) / Tracey
   Lynn Shifflett (Tracey.Shifflett@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019

              House Resources Expands Mourning Dove Hunting Season
   in Northern States

           Subcommittee on Fisheries Passes Bill to Full Committee

   Washington, D. C. –
   The Subcommittee on Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife & Oceans today
   passed House Concurrent Resolution 275. The bill calls for the
   expansion of the hunting season for migratory Mourning Doves in
   northern states. The House Resources Committee will take it up in full
   committee early next year.

   This pushes the hunting season, which has always started Sept. 1,
   forward a week in northern states to allow hunters to hunt the doves
   the last week in August, before the birds migrate south.

   The resolution changes the Migratory Bird Treaty of 1916 to accommodate
   the change in the hunting season for all states north of 37 degree
   longitude. The United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan and Russia are all
   signatories to the treaty. While only the executive branch can
   renegotiate a treaty, this resolution sends an important message to the
   Bush administration.

   By using this designation, hunters in some 34 states will be able to
   harvest this migratory species before the birds leave their states,
   including: northern California, Nevada, Utah, Colorado, Kansas,
   Missouri, Kentucky, Virginia.

   Chairman Hansen’s statement:

   "This is a common sense solution to a problem that has frustrated
   northern hunters for years. The Mourning Dove is a thin-skinned bird.
   They fly south at the first nip of frost in the air. By the time
   hunting season opens in half of the states, a hunter is lucky to find a
   hardy bird or two left.

   "These birds are an abundant species. They hatch three to four groups
   of chicks each year. Biologists tell us that pushing the hunting
   forward a week in the North won’t hurt the species at all – and it will
   make a lot of northern hunters happy.

   "Tweaking the season in the north by a week is a matter of fairness and
   equity. You could say that all hunters would now have an equal shot."

                                     ###
