http://pollutionprevention.sandia.gov/speakers.htm

                                 [logo.jpg]

                                 [title.gif]

                                  Speakers


   [speakers.jpg] [bookmarks.jpg] [schedule.jpg] [tracks.jpg] [report.jpg]
   [material.jpg] [home.gif]

      Speakers for the 1999 P2 Conference Included:

   T.J. Glauthier: DOE Deputy Secretary

      T.J. Glauthier was sworn in on March 18, 1999 in the Clinton-Gore
      Administration as the Deputy Secretary and Chief Operating Officer of
      DOE. In his role of COO, Mr. Glauthier has broad oversight for policy
      development and program implementation across all four the Department's
      major lines of business: Defence, Science, Energy, and Environment. He
      has also served as the Associate Director for Natural Resources,
      Energy, and Science and as Director of Energy and Climate Change as the
      World Wildlife Fund.

                              View Glauthier's Speech

   Dan Reicher: DOE Assistant Secretary at the Office of Energy Efficiency and
   Renewable Energy

   Amory Lovins: Keynote speaker

      Co-founded Rocky Mountain Institute--a 17-year-old, 48-person,
      independent nonprofit resource policy center--and directs its research
      and finance. A consultant physicist educated at Harvard and Oxford, he
      has received an Oxford MA (by virtue of being a don), six honorary
      doctorates, a MacArthur Fellowship, the Heinz and Lindbergh Awards, and
      the Nissan, Mitchell, "Alternative Nobel," and Onassis Prizes; held
      visiting academic chairs; briefed ten heads of state; published 26
      books and several hundred papers; and consulted for scores of
      industries and governments worldwide. The Wall Street Journal's
      Centennial Issue named him among 28 people in the world most likely to
      change the course of business in the 1990s, and Car magazine, the 22nd
      most powerful person in the global automotive industry. His work
      focuses on transforming the car, real-estate, electricity, water,
      semiconductor, and several other manufacturing sectors toward advanced
      resource productivity. His currently in-press books are Natural
      Capitalism: Creating the Next Industrial Revolution (withPaul Hawken
      and L. Hunter Lovins) and Small Is Profitable: The Hidden Economic
      Benefits of Making Electrical Resources the Right Size (with André
      Lehmann).

   William McDonough: Keynote speaker

      An internationally renowned designer and one of the primary proponents
      and shapers of what he and his partners call 'The Next Industrial
      Revolution.' Time magazine recently recognized him as a 'Hero for the
      Planet' (2/22/99), stating that "his utopianism is grounded in a
      unified philosophy that-in demonstrable and practical ways-is changing
      the design of the world." In 1996, he received the Presidential Award
      for Sustainable Development, the nation's highest environmental honor,
      presented by President Clinton in a White House ceremony.

      Mr. McDonough is cofounder and principal, with German chemist Michael
      Braungart, of McDonough Braungart Design Chemistry, a product and
      systems development firm assisting prominent client companies in
      implementing their unique sustaining design protocol. Current MBDC
      projects include designing shoes with Nike, personal care products with
      Unilever, furniture with Herman Miller, fabrics with Steelcase, and
      transportation-related products with Ford Motor Company.

      He is also the founding principal of William McDonough + Partners,
      Architects and Planners, an internationally recognized design firm
      practicing ecologically, socially, and economically intelligent
      architecture and planning in the U.S. and abroad. The design of the
      Environmental Defense Fund offices, completed in 1985, helped launch
      the 'green building' movement. Recent award-winning projects include
      designs for Gap Inc., Nike, Herman Miller, and Oberlin College.WM+P has
      received the business Week/Architectural Record "Good Design is Good
      Business" awards for large commercial projects in both 1997 and 1998.

      In addition to this, Mr. McDonough recently stepped down as the Dean of
      the School of Architecture at the University of Virginia, where he was
      also the Edward E. Elson Professor of Architecture. He is the founder
      and creative director of the University's Institute for Sustainable
      Design. Mr. McDonough has also been appointed the A. D. White
      Professor-at-Large at Cornell University.

      Mr. McDonough's leadership in sustainable development is recognized
      widely, both In the U.S.and internationally, and he has written and
      lectured extensively on his design philosophy and practice. He was
      commissioned in 1991 to write The Hannover Principles: Design for
      Sustainability as guidelines for the City of Hannover's EXPO 2000, and
      in 1993 to give the Centennial Sermon at the Cathedral of St. John the
      Divine in New York City.

   C.W. Metcalf: Closing plenary speaker

      In 1978, C.W. Metcalf became a hospice volunteer as a result of a visit
      to the Center for Attitudinal healing in California. He went to the
      center on assignment as a television writer and ended up going through
      a radical career change, quitting his job, and pursuing the lessons the
      children taught him. He began his studies in the field of
      Psychoneuroimmunology and created a series of seminars based on helping
      people understand the relationship of physical and psychological
      health. In the mid-80's, his work began attracting global business
      clients who were trying to cope with a new world of stress, change, and
      crisis. He has since worked with hundreds of corporate, government, and
      military groups. With his business partner and wife, Roma Felible, he
      co-authored the best selling book "Lighten Up: Survival Skills for
      People Under Pressure".

   Marlin S. Addison: Life Cycle Costing Mini-workshop Principal, M.S. Addison
   and Associates, Tempe, AZ and Technical Director, Building Energy Simulation
   Lab, Arizona State University

      Mr. Addison is a nationally recognized expert and teacher in
      computerized energy and economic analysis. He has more than eighteen
      years of experience designing and evaluating residential, commercial
      and industrial facilities using detailed energy-use simulation methods
      and has presented more than 100 professional seminars on detailed
      simulation methods and economic analysis. More recently, Mr. Addison
      has devoted much of his time to assisting in the development of
      PowerDOE®, and eQUEST®, the new state-of-the-art in DOE2 building
      energy analysis tools.

   Chris Hunter: Best Practices Roundtable Chat

      Chris Hunter represents the Corporate Energy Group at Johnson &
      Johnson, responsible for supporting energy management and procurement
      efforts Worldwide. A graduate of the College of Engineering at Rutgers
      University (highest honors), he has been a part of J&J Energy Group for
      2 years. Chris is a member of the Association of Energy Engineers,
      serves on the Project Development Committee for the Compressed Air
      Challenge* and the sits on the editorial board of Energy Matters, a
      bi-monthly industry publication.

   David Jaber

      David Jaber (djaber@ase.org) is the research associate for the
      Industrial Program at the Alliance to Save Energy, a national
      non-profit organization which brings together businesses, governments,
      and consumer organizations to work together on energy efficiency
      issues. In this capacity, he supports the Department of Energy Steam
      Challenge Program conducts research on industrial manufacturing and
      combined heat and power, and authors papers and presentations on how
      industrial plants can improve economic and environmental performance
      through energy management.

      David holds a B.S. in chemical engineering and an M.S. in environmental
      engineering. He worked as a research engineer to develop and use
      contaminant transport models, conduct risk assessments, and teach GIS
      before joining the Alliance. During this time, he also became involved
      in pollution prevention and sustainability initiatives. David has
      attended several workshops and conferences on energy management, The
      Natural Step, the National Pollution Prevention Roundtable and the
      World Resources Institute's Management for Environment and Business. He
      is a member of The Natural Step, the U.S. Combined Heat and Power
      Association, and the Air and Waste Management Association.

   Dr. Lisa Gartland: Replace CFC Chillers by Integrated Chiller Retrofit

      Dr. Lisa Gartland (positivenergy@california.com) is the sole proprietor
      of PositivEnergy, a consulting firm dedicated to community energy
      conservation. PositivEnergy concentrates on research, application and
      educational outreach programs to improve residential and commercial
      building energy efficiency. She is also the director of the Sacramento
      Cool Community Program, which promotes trees, vegetation and cool
      building surfaces to reduce Sacramento's heat island.

      Lisa was previously a post-doctoral fellow at Lawrence Berkeley
      National Laboratory (LBNL) where she was director of the Cool Sense
      Project, a program to promote integrated chiller and building retrofits
      in response to CFC phase-outs. Lisa holds a doctorate in mechanical
      engineering from the University of Washington, a master¹s degree in
      aerospace engineering from the University of Cincinnati, and a
      bachelor¹s degree in mechanical engineering from Carnegie-Mellon
      University.

   Beverly Dyer: Energy Star buildings mini-workshop Program Manager, Energy
   Star Buildings Federal Sector, U.S. EPA

      As the Program Manager of EPA's Energy Star Buildings Federal Sector,
      Beverly coordinates efforts to assist the federal sector to reach its
      energy efficiency goals through Energy Star partnerships with other
      federal agencies. Initiatives this year include implementation of
      Executive Order 13123 through Energy Star benchmarking and building
      labels for Federal office buildings, and incorporation of Energy Star
      criteria in Federal lease and performance contracting language.

      Beverly has been with EPA for fourteen years. Prior to EPA, she worked
      as a Science Resource Analyst at the National Science Foundation, and
      before that was a systems engineer with Electronic Data Systems. She
      received her masters degree in Science, Technology and Public Policy
      from the George Washington University in 1980.

                                   [alvrule.gif]

        U.S. Department of Energy Pollution Prevention Conference November
                                    15-19, 1999
              E-mail info: doep2@sandia.gov Voice info: 505-284-6749
                    Copyright 1999 Sandia National Laboratories

        Sandia National Laboratories (Logo)   Waste-management Education &
        Research Consortium (Logo)   Los Alamos National Laboratory (Logo)
