http://www.msha.gov/asinfo.htm

   MSHA - Assistant Secretary Info

   David D. Lauriski (Dave)
                              Information About
   The Assistant Secretary
        David D. Lauriski was confirmed as the Assistant Secretary of
   Labor for Mine Safety and Health on May 9, 2001. Prior to his
   confirmation as Assistant Secretary, Mr. Lauriski spent 30 years in the
   coal mining industry.
        At the time of his leaving the mining business in 1999, Mr.
   Lauriski was the General Manager of Energy West Mining Company. Under
   his leadership, Energy West was recognized for its position as one of
   the largest underground coal producers in the United States and, most
   importantly, as one of the safest companies in the industry. Mr.
   Lauriski was the Director of Health, Safety, Environmental and
   Governmental Affairs for Interwest Mining Company from 1993-1995.
        Mr. Lauriski is recognized throughout the United States for his
   leadership skills in safety management. The United States mining
   industry selected Mr. Lauriski to represent its interest in Geneva,
   Switzerland, at the International Labor Organization. The culmination
   of his work was the U.S. Senate's ratification of Convention 176 in
   September 2000.
        Prior to his confirmation as Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine
   Safety and Health, Mr. Lauriski served as Chairman of the Utah Board of
   Oil, Gas, and Mining and as a board member of the Utah Mining
   Association. He has also served as Chairman of the Coal Mine Safety
   Committee for the former American Mining Congress, and as Chairman of
   the Safety Committee for the Utah Coal Operators.
        Mr. Lauriski attended Utah State University and the College of
   Eastern Utah and is recognized as a Certified Mine Safety Professional
   by the International Society of Mine Safety Professionals. He also
   holds certifications as an Underground and Surface Mine Foreman in the
   State of Utah.

   spacer Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Statement Search Site   Go to
                                                                 Home Page
