http://www.doc.gov/oebam/fair/

   [back.gif] Return to OEBAM Homepage

                    WELCOME TO THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

              Commerce FAIR Act Inventory and A-76 Information

   The Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998 ( Adobe Acrobat
   Icon ) is available online from the U.S. Government Printing Office.
   The U.S. Office of Management and Budget's has its Circular A-76 and
   related documents concerning the FAIR Act online as well.




   Operating Unit Adobe Acrobat Format Microsoft Excel Format HTM Format
   Consolidated (Entire Department) Adobe Acrobat Icon - Consolidated
   Microsoft Excel Icon - Consolidated custom HTML icon
   Bureau of Economic Analysis Adobe Acrobat Icon - Office of the
   Secretary Microsoft Excel Icon - Office of the Secretary custom HTML
   icon
   Bureau of Export Administration (BXA) Adobe Acrobat Icon - Office of
   the Secretary Microsoft Excel Icon - Office of the Secretary custom
   HTML icon
   Bureau of the Census  Adobe Acrobat Icon - Office of the Secretary
   Microsoft Excel Icon - Office of the Secretary custom HTML icon
   Economic Development Administration (EDA) Adobe Acrobat Icon - Economic
   Development Administration Microsoft Excel Icon - Economic Development
   Administration custom HTML icon
   Economics and Statistics Administration (ESA) Adobe Acrobat Icon -
   Economic Development Administration Microsoft Excel Icon - Economic
   Development Administration custom HTML icon
   International Trade Administration (ITA) Adobe Acrobat Icon - National
   Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration Microsoft Excel Icon - National
   Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration custom HTML icon
   Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) Adobe Acrobat Icon -
   International Trade Administration Microsoft Excel Icon - International
   Trade Administration custom HTML icon
   National Institute of Standards & Technology (NIST) Adobe Acrobat Icon
   - National Institute of Standards & Technology Microsoft Excel Icon -
   National Institute of Standards & Technology custom HTML icon
   National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Adobe Acrobat Icon
   - National Institute of Standards & Technology Microsoft Excel Icon -
   Office of the Inspector General custom HTML icon
   National Telecommunications & Information Administration (NTIA) Adobe
   Acrobat Icon - National Telecommunications & Information Administration
   Microsoft Excel Icon - National Telecommunications & Information
   Administration custom HTML icon
   National Technical Information Service (NTIS) Adobe Acrobat Icon -
   National Technical Information Service Microsoft Excel Icon - National
   Technical Information Service custom HTML icon
   Office of the Inspector General (OIG) Adobe Acrobat Icon - Office of
   the Inspector General Microsoft Excel Icon - Office of the Inspector
   General custom HTML icon
   Office of the Secretary (OS) Adobe Acrobat Icon - Office of the
   Inspector General Microsoft Excel Icon - Office of the Inspector
   General custom HTML icon
   Patent and Trademark Office(PTO) Adobe Acrobat Icon - Office of the
   Inspector General Microsoft Excel Icon - Office of the Inspector
   General custom HTML icon
   Technology Policy (TA) Adobe Acrobat Icon - Bureau of Export
   Administration Microsoft Excel Icon - Bureau of Export Administration
   custom HTML icon

     The Adobe Acrobat Icon symbol indicates files that require the free
     Adobe Acrobat Reader, and the Microsoft Excel Icon symbol indicates
             files that require the free Microsoft Excel Viewer.

   The U. S. Department of Commerce FAIR Act Inventory is available in its
   entirety in a screen- and printer-friendly format ( Adobe Acrobat Icon
   ) and in spreadsheet format ( Microsoft Excel Icon ). The Inventory is
   also available segmented by Departmental operating unit (see table).

  Questions

   General questions on FAIR Act issues should be directed to the program
   coordinator:

   Edna Campbell
   U.S. Department of Commerce
   OEBAM/OEAM, Room 6204
   14th and Constitution, NW
   Washington DC 20230

   Phone:    202 482 0585
   Fax:      202 482 3270
   Email:    ecampbell@doc.gov

   Contacts for Bureau Specific Questions - click here

  Challenges

   Challenges should be directed to the Chief Financial Officer or
   Administrative Officer of each Bureau within 30 days of the notice of
   availability listed by Office of Management and Budget in the Federal
   Register. Challenges may be faxed to meet the deadline, but will not be
   accepted by e-mail. Responses to challenges will be available in 28
   days.

  Appeals

   The FAIR Act permits an interested party who is dissatisfied with the
   response to an inventory challenge to appeal the decision to an agency
   official. The DOC official designated to arbitrate such appeals is:

   Chief Financial Officer and
      Assistant Secretary for Administration
   U. S. Department of Commerce
   1401 Constitution, NW
   Room 5828
   Washington, DC 20230


     FY' 2000 Fair Act Inventory( Adobe Acrobat Icon ) ( Microsoft Excel
                          Icon ) ) | DOC Home Page
