http://www.publicdebt.treas.gov/com/comhello.htm

   About Us

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

              The Commissioner of the Public Debt Welcomes You


 Glad you dropped by.

 Haven't heard of the Bureau of the Public Debt before? I'll bet you've
 heard of our "products."

 We are a small agency within the Department of the Treasury. Our
 customers are your neighbors, co-workers, and most likely you too. You
 are our customer if you have ever bought any type of Treasury security
 for yourself or, as millions have done in the case of savings bonds, as
 a gift for someone else.
                                                                        Van Zeck
                                                                        Van Zeck

   Our job is to borrow the money needed to operate the Federal Government
   and to account for the resulting debt. In a nutshell, we borrow by
   selling Treasury bills, notes, and bonds, as well as U.S. Savings
   Bonds; we pay interest to investors; and, when the time comes to pay
   back the loans, we redeem investors' securities. Every time we borrow
   or pay back money, it affects the outstanding debt of the United
   States. It's important that we keep careful track of the amount of this
   debt. You can see the results of all of our calculations here on our
   site.

   Borrowing the money the Federal Government needs is a constant job.
   Public Debt borrows about $2 trillion each year by conducting some 140
   auctions, as well as through the continuous sale of savings bonds at
   40,000 locations throughout the country. We have something for
   everyone. Major securities dealers and financial institutions regularly
   buy hundreds of millions of dollars of our securities. Other investors
   loan us $50 or $100 at a time, when they purchase savings bonds. We
   strive to provide high-quality service to all our customers, regardless
   of the size of their purchase. We do this with the strong support of
   our dedicated employees, who are located mostly in Parkersburg, West
   Virginia, and Washington, D.C. We also receive help in carrying out our
   tasks from Federal Reserve Banks throughout the country, who act as our
   agents.

   On our Web site, you'll find loads of information about savings bonds,
   including our nifty, free Savings Bond Wizard. Download him and he'll
   help you keep track of your bonds and what they're currently worth.
   Interested in buying T-bills, notes, or bonds? Check out TreasuryDirect
   -- a really simple way to buy and hold these securities. You'll also
   find information about upcoming auctions, results of past auctions, and
   a lot more. Don't forget to check out "What's New" regularly -- we are
   always adding to our site.

   We hope you enjoy Public Debt's Web site and that you find it
   informative and helpful.

   Van Zeck
   Commissioner

                            Updated May 10, 2001
