http://egov.gov/about_us.htm

   GSA Logo   Skip past Home GSA

                                       egov logo Picture of the American flag


   Home

       Privacy & Security

                         FAQs

                             About Us

                                     Staff

                                          Search

                                                Site Map link skipping group



   About Us

   The Government is transforming its functions to focus on the needs of
   citizens and business alliances. Americans expect to be able to do
   business when it is convenient for them over the phone or via
   electronic technologies. They have the same expectations when
   interacting with government. However, Federal agencies face shrinking
   budgets, improved-productivity demands, rapid technology advances,
   shifts in customer expectations, complexities in serving diverse
   populations, and workforce limitations.
   Electronic government offers citizens and businesses the opportunity to
   interact and conduct business with Government by using electronic
   methods. The overall objective of electronic government is to give the
   public easily accessible, electronic government services and
   information.
   The Office of Electronic Government in the General Services
   Administration was formerly named the Office of Electronic Commerce.
   Electronic government is about using technology to enhance access to
   and delivery of information and services to citizens, business
   partners, employees, agencies, and government entities. Adoption of
   E-Commerce is well underway in Federal agencies. Government use of
   Internet-based services, for electronic purchasing and information
   sharing is becoming more sophisticated. However, a recent report
   published by GSA's Office of Intergovernmental Solutions noted that
   on-line citizen transactions are still in the early stages. For a copy
   of the report, visit policyworks.gov/org/main/mg/intergov.
   "We need to shift perspective, move to citizen-centered services and
   create a real electronic government," Mitchell said. The Office will
   continue to promote simplified, standardized access to on-line
   Government information and services.
   1. Principles for E-Government
   E-government is enabling Government to move from passive to active
   service delivery and information flow. This shift has already resulted
   in faster, more accurate and cost-effective services to the citizens.
   To continue, everyone in Government needs to be active in the
   transformation to an E-Government, while striving to achieve the
   following principles:
     * Deliver customer-centric services rather than stove-piped
       Agency-centric processes
     * Demand interoperability across government and with industry
       partners.
     * Provide common access to Government services and information via
       government-wide portals that are organized around the needs of
       communities of customers.
     * Build strong privacy protection, confidentiality, and trust.
     * Adopt commercial products , practices, and standards.
     * Foster strong interagency, inter-organizational, and cross sector
       leadership to promote the sharing of information and leading
       practices.
     * Re-engineer paper-based processes to produce results that will
       dramatically improve service and responsiveness while reducing
       costs.

   2. E-Gov is Big Business

   E-Gov services impact business partners, the public, and other
   governments. For example:
     * Federal procurement totals over $200 Billion annually and 300,000
       suppliers
     * Federal grants total $300 Billion annually by 33 agencies managing
       almost 1400 grant programs
     * Federal benefits transfer $50 Billion annually through Electronic
       Benefit Transfer (EBT) to 50 million beneficiaries
     * All of these processes are moving to E-Government: E-Procurement,
       E-Grants, EBT

   3. New Legislative Mandates Push for E-Gov Implementation
     * Government-wide Mandates

     * Gov't Paperwork Elimination Act of 1998 (GPEA) : agencies must
       offer electronic services/transactions as alternative to paper by
       October 2003.
     * Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act of 1999
       (E-SIGN) : electronic signature may not be denied legal effect; and
       all commercial, interstate contracts, transactions, and writings
       may be executed electronically.

     Industry-specific Mandates
     * Health Information Protection and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
     * E-Grants
     * EBT Interoperability Act

   4. Key Requirements for E-Services, and Cross-cutting Infrastructure IT
   Investment
     * Success of E-Government services is directly dependent on the
       public's trust and confidence in doing business electronically with
       the Government.
     * Information security, privacy and confidentiality need to be at the
       core of all E-Gov strategic planning, and be an integral part of
       business process re-engineering.
     * Government needs to use creative ways to achieve and fund the
       transformation to a horizontal government, and leverage investments
       for the Federal marketplace.
     * Electronic technologies and entry points to Government are vital to
       the transformation. For example, Public Key Infrastructure, and
       Firstgov.

   Finally, responding to the challenge of E-Gov requires the
   establishment of new organizations, and roles and responsibilities.
   Within these new organizational structures, functions and resources
   need to be aligned to achieve results that transform government.


           Home | Privacy & Security | About Us | Staff | Site Map
                  Contact Us | Search | Privacy Information

                         Accessibility 05/04/2001 OGP-CIO
