http://www.msnd.uscourts.gov


   [bar.jpg]

   Welcome to the Internet website for the United States District Court
   for the Northern District of Mississippi.
   The black  labels above  the court seal are the navigation bar for this
   website. Place your cursor on any of the eight black labels: Drop-down
   menus automatically appear beneath each label. Place your cursor on one
   of the drop-down menus: Each menu is color highlighted as the cursor
   moves across it. Click your computer mouse button on a highlighted menu
   item: The menu will open, disclosing the information available in that
   menu.
   Entries printed in underscored blue ink are hypertext links. Place your
   cursor on such an entry and click the mouse: you will be automatically
   shifted to the site linked to the entry.
   The court seal in the upper right corner of each page on this website
   is a "home" button. Place your cursor on the seal on any page and click
   the mouse: This home page screen will reappear.
   You can increase the size of the text on these website pages by
   pressing the Control [CTRL] button and the open-bracket ] button;
   pressing Control and the close-bracket [ button decreases the text
   size. Each sequential pressing of Control and the appropriate bracket
   increases or decreases the text size.


   [pacer-net.gif]


   Quick Links for the Court

   U. S. Code

   U. S. Dept. of Justice

   U.S. Bankruptcy - Northern District of Mississippi

   Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals

   Federal Rules Information

   Pacer Service Center




   New Local Rules December 1, 2000 (PDF Format) [new.gif]
           Official Forms - All in PDF Format
             Case Management Order
             Notice of Receipt of Original Deposition

             Notice of Service of Interrogatories or Requests for

             Production of Documents or Responses Thereto

             Notice of Service of Pre-Discovery Disclosure

             Information
             Pretrial Order
             Receipt of Seized Property
             Good Faith Certificate
             Uniform Local Rule 26.1 Violation Order

             Application for Enrollment in Court's Panel of

             Neutrals





   Divisional Map

   AYERS Proposal Order - January 2, 2002 [new.gif]
   NOTICE - Request For Comment On Proposed Amendments To The Federal
   Rules Of Practice & Procedure [new.gif]
   NOTICE TO BAR REGARDING ASSIGNMENT OF CIVIL ACTIONS TO MAGISTRATE
   JUDGES [new.gif]
   AYERS MEMORANDUM OPINION AND ORDER - Dated November 05,  2001 [new.gif]
   Courtroom Technology Information (November 2001) [new.gif]
   Reference Notes for Preparing Bills of Costs - January 2002 [new.gif]
   CJA Instructions and Information Form - January 2002 [new.gif]
   Standing Order dated September 17, 1998
   Form P1, Forms for Relief Under 28 USC Section 2254
   Form P2, Forms for Relief Under 28 USC Section 2255
   Form P3, Forms for Prisoner Challenging Prison Conditions Under 42 USC
   Section 1983
   Form 4, Prisoner's Motion to Proceed In Forma Pauperis on Appeal.
   Order Requiring Disclosure of Corporate Financial Interests, December
   7, 1999
   Northern District Plan Implementing Speedy Trial Act
   Timetable For Lawyers Practicing In The United States District Court
   For The Northern District Of Mississippi
   Judicial Council of the Fifth Circuit Plan under the Criminal Justice
   Act for Representation on Appeal



   [index31.gif]








                                        [email.gif] Email for Information.

   Any external hypertext links found within this website contain
   information created and maintained by other public and private
   organizations. The links are provided for the users convenience. The
   U.S. District Court, Northern District of Mississippi, does not control
   nor guarantee the accuracy, relevance, timeliness, or completeness of
   this outside information. Further, the inclusion of these links is not
   intended to reflect their importance, nor is it intended as an
   endorsement of any views expressed, products or services offered, or
   organizations sponsoring these sites. This site is optimally viewed at
   800 x 600 minimum, 16mm colors, small fonts, with Internet Explorer 4.0
   or Netscape 4.5 or above.  01/24/2002 09:22:22 AM
