http://www.perb.ca.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                               Home
                               About PERB
                               Laws & Rules
                               Decisions
                               Board Meetings
                               News
                               Annual Report



                                    Tools



                            Forms & Publications
                            How to use PERB
                            Decision Bank
                                    Links


                        California Public Employment
                               Relations Board


                                                             Books & Gavel

   The Public Employment Relations Board (PERB or Board) is a
   quasi-judicial administrative agency charged with administering the
   collective bargaining statutes covering employees of California's
   public schools, colleges, and universities, employees of the State of
   California, and employees of California local public agencies (cities,
   counties and special districts).


                                  The Board



   The Board is composed of five members drawn from California's public
   and private sectors. Current members are: Antonio C. Amador, Richard T.
   Baker, Theodore G. Neima and Alfred K. Whitehead, Members. Presently,
   one board position is vacant.

   PERB is headquartered in Sacramento, and maintains regional offices in
   Oakland and Los Angeles.


                                      DISCLAIMER

        All information provided by the Public Employment Relations Board on
        this and its other Web pages is made available to provide immediate
        access for the convenience of interested persons. While the Board
        believes the information to be reliable, human or mechanical error
        remains a possibility. Therefore, PERB does not guarantee the accuracy,
        completeness, timeliness, or correct sequencing of the information.
        Neither PERB nor any of its agents shall be responsible for any errors
        or omissions, or for the use or results obtained from the use of this
        information. Other specific cautionary notices may be included on other
        Web pages maintained by PERB.


                                 ATTENTION!

     Before opening a PDF, it is recommended that you download the latest
     version of Adobe Acrobat Reader (download Acrobat 5.0 for free).

     Some PDFs may take several minutes to download.

                                  [help.gif]


   To receive a copy of any forms or publications right away,

   Write:



                      Public Employment Relations Board
                              1031 18th Street
                         Sacramento, CA. 95814-4174

   Call:

                                (916) 322-3198

   E-Mail:

               Order Forms (Please include your mailing address)



                        __________ search
                        (*)  My CA   ( )   This Site

                                  PERB Logo

                                    News


                   Governor Appoints PERB General Counsel

                   PERB Releases Annual Report

                   Board Adopts Permanent MMBA Regulations

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
