http://www.cftt.nist.gov



                                 [cftt.jpg]

     Computer Forensics Tool Testing (CFTT) Project Web Site

   HOME

   DOCUMENTS

   STATUS

   NSRL RDS

   The National Institute of
   Standards and Technology
   (NIST) is an agency of the
   U.S. Department of
   Commerce's
   Technology Administration.

   [centlogo_small_teal.JPG]


   Updated on: 2001-09-28

   Version 3.1.5 of the Disk Imaging Specification has been posted on the
   documents page along with responses to comments received since August
   13.

   Welcome to the new and updated Computer Forensics Tool Testing (CFTT)
   Project Web Site.

   This project is supported by the U.S. Department of Justice's National
   Institute of Justice (NIJ), federal, state, and local law enforcement,
   and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to
   promote efficient and effective use of computer technology in the
   investigation of crimes involving computers. Numerous other sponsoring
   organizations from law enforcement, government, and industry are
   providing resources to accomplish these goals.

   The CFTT is designed to provide a measure of assurance in the results
   of investigations based on automated tools used in computer forensics
   examinations. These tools are used by law enforcement, government, and
   industry organizations to examine disk drives seized in computer crime
   investigations and to analyze the files found. Examples of tools may
   include disk imaging software, password crackers, image analysis tools,
   and others.

   A sister project to this work is the National Software Reference
   Library (NSRL). The NSRL Project has its own web site at
   http://www.nsrl.nist.gov.

   The CFTT discussion group at http://groups.yahoo.com/group/cftt is not
   affiliated with this project, although it does cover similar topics.

                                 Contact us:


               National Institute of Standards and Technology
                             ATTN: CFTT Project
                         100 Bureau Drive, Stop 8970
                       Gaithersburg, MD 20899-8970 USA
    E-mail: cftt@nist.gov      Phone: 301-975-3262     FAX: 301-948-6213
