http://knoxville.fbi.gov



   Graphic - FBI Seal

   FBI's Most Wanted - Knoxville

                               Link - History
                            Link - Press releases
                              Link - Locations
                                Link - Links
                               Link - Welcome
                               Link - Contact

                     Link - Privacy and Security Policy

   Federal Bureau of Investigation
       Knoxville Field Office

   Welcome to the home page of the Knoxville, Tennessee Office of the FBI.

                  Photograph of the World's Fair SunSphere

   Knoxville is located in a placid, green valley within sight of the
   Great Smoky Mountains National Park. The city is surrounded by seven of
   the "Great Lakes of the South" created by the Tennessee Valley
   Authority, whose headquarters are located in Knoxville.

   Knoxville, which had a 1995 Metropolitan Statistical Area population of
   640,700, is best known for hosting the 1982 World's Fair. The city was
   officially founded on October 3, 1791, and named in honor of General
   Henry Knox, Secretary of War in President George Washington's cabinet.

   Knoxville is surrounded by the world famous U.S. Department of Energy's
   Oak Ridge National Laboratory and three National Parks. The shimmering
   Great Lakes of the South provide accessible sports and recreational
   opportunities. Due to Knoxville's convenient location, you can easily
   spend a day in the mountains or raft a whitewater river and still enjoy
   an evening on the town.

   This site contains a history of the Knoxville Office, including some of
   the cases the office has handled, and information about the Knoxville
   Field Office and how to contact your local FBI office. Pictures of the
   beautiful Knoxville area are scattered throughout the site.

   Knoxville Field Office personnel:
   Graphic - blue ball Special Agent In Charge: R. Joe Clark
       Graphic - blue ball Assistant Special Agent In Charge: James E.
       Finch
       Graphic - blue ball Media Relations Coordinator: Special Agent L.
       Scott Nowinski
       Graphic - blue ball Law Enforcement Training Coordinator: Special
       Agent Peggy Lee Smith

                      Animated picture of local scenery

                          FBI Fugitives - Knoxville


       History Press Releases

                                                             Locations

       Links

               Welcome

                              Contact Us
