http://www.centennialofflight.gov

                  Experience Kitty Hawk, NC, Dec. 17, 1903


   [blackpixel.gif] Centennial of Flight Commission
                    Animation
                    A Century of Wings



                         What's New!

                         Home
                         About the Commission
                         National Plan
                         Calendar of Events
                           •Search an Event
                           •Submit an Event
                         Wright Brothers History
                         For Educators & Students
                           •Matrix
                           •Posters & Bookmark
                         History of Aviation
                         Future of Flight
                         Exhibit Info & Brochure
                         Sights & Sounds of Aviation
                         Contact Us


   Welcome to the Centennial of Flight Commission!

   The Centennial of Flight Commission was created by the U.S. Congress in
   1999 to serve as a national and international source of information
   about activities to commemorate the centennial of the Wright Brothers'
   first powered flight on the sands at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, on
   December 17, 1903. There will be much centennial excitement in 2003 in
   both North Carolina and Dayton, Ohio, home place of the Wright
   brothers. In addition to these celebrations, we anticipate numerous
   historical and educational projects about aviation and aeronautics that
   will be an important legacy of the centennial of powered flight.

   Over time we will add features to our web site that will interest
   aviation enthusiasts, students of aeronautics, educators, historians,
   and children of all ages. One of the most important of these features
   will be a searchable calendar of events surrounding, and inspired by,
   the centennial in 2003. Starting now, we invite you to let us know
   about the Wright centennial inspired activities you are planning.
   (Click on "contact us," below.) From our web site you will also be able
   to link to other aviation and aeronautics related organizations and
   resources.

   We also want to be as "user friendly" as we can. Those of you visiting
   our web site with slower modem speeds will be able to see the same
   content as those with faster speeds. And, of course, we will be able to
   meet Federal accessibility requirements for individuals with a variety
   of disabilities. Be sure to let us know if you have any technical
   difficulties with our web site by clicking on "contact us," below.

   Official Commission Website
   Curator: Official Commission Website
   Contact Us | Technical Questions
   DISCLAIMER
