http://t14web.lanl.gov/Research/TDAC2000/mader.dynamics.00.pdf

   Theoretical Division - Self-Assessment Special Feature Detonation
   Theory & Application, T-14 April 2000 Los Alamos Material Properties
   Charles L. Mader The Los Alamos Dynamic Material Properties data
   volumes LOS ALAMOS EXPLOSIVE PERFORMANCE DATA - were collected and
   published by the UC Press in the early edited by C. L. Mader, J. N.
   Johnson, and S. L. Crane 1980s. All of the data volumes went out of
   print in September 1999. The seven volumes of Los Alamos Dynamic
   Material Explosive performance, as measured by plate acceleration
   Properties have now been made available as PDF files on a data,
   aquarium data, and detonation velocity data, is presented CD-ROM. The
   entire collection can be searched using Adobe for many explosives and
   geometries of interest. Acrobat 4.0 or Adobe Exchange 3.0. Over 80
   copies of the CD-ROM have been requested by laboratory staff members.
   The Los Alamos National Laboratory library is preparing to LOS ALAMOS
   SHOCK WAVE PROFILE DATA, edited make the entire data volume collection
   available on their by Charles E. Morris electronic publications web
   site. This data collection includes 300 shock wave profiles of The data
   in these volumes established the basis for many elements, compounds,
   minerals, plastics, explosives, and sophisticated material models that
   have been developed at propellants generated using capacitor gages,
   quartz gages, Los Alamos. However, some of the experimental Manganin
   gages, and the electromagnetic probe. observations contained therein
   have never been adequately explained. Easy access to this data should
   stimulate renewed interest in these areas. LASL PHERMEX DATA, VOLUMES
   1, 2, 3 - edited by The Los Alamos Series on Dynamic Material
   Properties Charles L. Mader consists of the following data volumes. The
   x-ray machine PHERMEX was used to study materials under a variety of
   shock conditions that could not be studied by other techniques. The
   processes investigated include jet LASL SHOCK HUGONIOT DATA, edited by
   Stanley P. formation, dynamic fracture, Munroe jets, reflected shocks
   Marsh resulting from colliding detonations, phase change, Mach and
   regular reflections in metals and explosives, explosive This data
   collection includes the experimentally measured desensitization by
   pre-shocking and Taylor instabilities. equation-of-state data for 450
   solids, liquids, gases and explosives in the 500-atmosphere to several
   megabar range. LASL EXPLOSIVE PROPERTY DATA, edited by Terry Gibbs and
   A. Popolato This volume contains the physical properties, chemical
   properties, detonation velocity, metal plate push data and shock
   initiation data for fifty commonly used high- performance explosives
   that were studied at the Los Alamos National Laboratory. A U. S.
   Department of Energy Laboratory This paper is a portion of LA-UR-00-1.
   clm@lanl.gov Los Alamos
