http://nccam.nih.gov/fi/concepts/pa/par-02-040.htm

   Developmental /Pilot Projects in Cancer Complementary and Alternative
   Medicine (CAM)


   Release Date: December 17, 2001

   PA NUMBER: PAR-02-040

   National Cancer Institute
   National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
   Letter of Intent Receipt Dates: January 16, 2002, May 17, 2002,
   September 16, 2002, January 16, 2003, May 23, 2003, September 16, 2003
   Application Receipt Dates: February 20, 2002, June 21, 2002, October
   21, 2002, February 20, 2003, June 20, 2003, October 21, 2003

      This PA uses "Modular Grant" and "Just-in-Time" concepts. Modular
    instructions must be used for research grant applications requesting
    less than $250,000 per year in all years. Modular budget instructions
   are provided in section C of the PHS 398 (revision 5/2001) available at
          http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html.

                                   Purpose

     The Office of Cancer Complementary and Alternative Medicine of the
        National Cancer Institute (NCI), and the National Center for
    Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM) invite research grant
      applications from interested investigators to conduct innovative
        developmental pilot research investigating Complementary and
   Alternative Medicine (CAM) in cancer. The intent of this initiative is
     to encourage and support the development of basic and clinical CAM
     cancer research and to provide the basis for more extended research
         projects by establishing the methodological feasibility and
       strengthening the scientific rationale for these projects. This
   announcement is also intended to stimulate and facilitate the entry of
    promising investigators into cancer CAM research through a program of
               exploratory investigator-initiated R21 grants.

    The exploratory/developmental (R21) grant mechanism is used for pilot
        projects or feasibility studies to support the exploration of
   feasibility, as well as the development, of projects investigating CAM
   in cancer and for the generation of preliminary data. The R21 mechanism
   is specifically intended to support innovative ideas where preliminary
       data are sparse or do not exist. The R21 supported projects are
    intended to serve as a foundation for planning and developing future
    research projects (R01s). The objective of this Program Announcement
    (PA) is to encourage applications from individuals who are interested
      in testing novel or conceptually creative ideas that may produce
     innovative advances in the understanding and use of CAM in cancer.

                             Research Objectives

      The widespread use of a variety of nutritional, psychological and
      natural medical approaches, collectively termed complementary and
    alternative medicine (CAM), has been well documented. Recent surveys
     demonstrate that between 9 and 91% of U.S. cancer patients use CAM
   therapies at some time after their diagnosis. Despite the broad use of
   CAM treatment for cancer, there is a lack of data available to indicate
      whether these CAM practices are efficacious and safe. Various NIH
      advisory groups have cited the need for increased research on CAM
    approaches for the treatment of cancer and have encouraged the NIH to
                  support the evaluation of CAM therapies.

   There is a paucity of R01 funded research grants in the field of cancer
            CAM. Therefore, to increase the number and quality of
     investigator-initiated R01 research grants on cancer CAM, the NCI's
      Office of Cancer Complementary and Alternative Medicine and NCCAM
      developed this PA for Developmental/Pilot Projects in Cancer CAM.
   Applications will undergo competitive review organized by the NCCAM in
                         collaboration with the NCI.

        The intent of this initiative is to encourage and support the
       development of basic, and clinical (prevention, therapeutic and
   palliative) CAM cancer research. Another goal of this initiative is to
   facilitate communication and collaboration between the CAM practitioner
              and the conventional cancer research communities.

   For the purpose of this PA, applicants must include modalities from the
                    following broad program areas in CAM:

      Alternative Medical Systems (e.g., oriental medicine, Ayurvedic,
                          homeopathy, naturopathy);

    Manipulative and Body-based Systems (e.g., chiropractic, osteopathic,
        massage therapy or unconventional applications of integrated
                    conventional and physical therapies);

      Energy Therapies. These approaches focus either on energy fields
    purported to originate within or be conducted through the body (e.g.,
     external qi gong, therapeutic touch, Reiki, intentional effects on
       living systems); or those from other sources [e.g., therapeutic
   application of electromagnetic (EM) fields including pulsed EM fields,
                magnetic fields, Direct Current (DC) fields].

      Pharmacological or Biologically based Therapies (e.g., metabolic
   therapies and immunoaugmentative therapies as used by CAM practitioners
         or the public such as Coley's toxin, Enzyme therapies, the
           Livingston-Wheeler system, the Revici system, or 714-X)

    Herbal Medicine (Note: This category includes studies of whole plant
     products or extracts and does not include the study or isolation of
   active ingredients from herbal preparations except where identification
    and standardization of optimal whole product are the specific aim --
   e.g. optimal ratio of glycosides and terpenoids in Ginkgo biloba -- or
              comparisons are being made to the whole product);

   Orthomolecular Medicine - This category includes the use of nutritional
    and food supplements (Co-enzyme Q10, carnitine, melatonin, vitamins)
   for therapeutic or preventive purposes. These products are usually used
      in combinations and at very high doses (5-10 fold) well above the
     Recommended Daily Allowance (RDA) when such RDAs have been defined.

       Mind-Body Medicine: Concept proposals in this category will be
   considered only if they are limited to those mind-body approaches that
      are used by the public or practitioners outside of a conventional
    medicine setting (e.g., transcendental meditation, imagery, hypnosis,
   biofeedback, music therapy, yoga, relaxation, spirituality, biological
     effects of consciousness). Mind-body approaches that are relatively
       integrated into conventional medicine (e.g., patient education,
      psychotherapy, cognitive-behavioral approaches, etc.) will NOT be
    considered unless physiologic endpoints (e.g., immune parameters) or
   disease parameters (response rate to conventional therapy, disease-free
        survival, overall survival) are the primary outcome measures;

    Applications may also focus on interactions between these modalities
     and non-CAM cancer treatment and therapies (e.g. Drug Interactions:
   studies to evaluate the potential interaction of antioxidant compounds
          and conventional chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy.)

        Most commercially available CAM products lack data on product
     characterization, purity, standardization or stability. Therefore,
     applicants are encouraged to discuss quality control of the source
   material for the proposed research. Authentication and characterization
       of the material will assure reproducibility for future trials.

     Dosing of most CAM interventions is rarely standardized; in fact a
       basic tenet of CAM is individualized diagnosis and treatment of
    patients. Thus, the applicant must carefully consider dosing. If the
    dosage is not established but based on traditional use, a citation(s)
      from a well-recognized, accessible source to support the proposed
    dosage should be referenced. If the dosage deviates from traditional
                   use, this decision should be justified.

   It is the sole responsibility of the applicant to obtain all necessary
   clearances from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as required. It
   is expected that applicants will have contacted the FDA about necessity
    of an Investigation New Drug (IND) request well before submission of
        the current application. In addition, applicants are strongly
    encouraged to consult their local Institutional Review Boards (IRBs)
             concerning IND status and the IRB approval process.

                            Mechanism of Support

          This PA will use the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
   exploratory/developmental (R21) grant mechanism. Responsibility for the
     planning, direction, and execution of the proposed project will be
        solely that of the applicant. The total project period for an
   application submitted in response to this PA may not exceed TWO years.
   Though the size of award may vary with the scope of research proposed,
       it is expected that applications will stay within the budgetary
    guidelines for an exploratory/developmental project; direct costs are
         limited to $150,000 (six budget modules). These grants are
   non-renewable and continuation of projects developed under this PA will
     be through the traditional unsolicited investigator initiated grant
       program. The earliest anticipated award date is September 2002.

       Specific application instructions have been modified to reflect
   "MODULAR GRANT" and "JUST-IN-TIME" streamlining efforts that have been
   adopted by the NIH. Complete and detailed instructions and information
    on Modular Grant applications have been incorporated into the PHS 398
   (rev. 5/2001). Additional information on Modular Grants can be found at
          http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/modular/modular.htm.

                          Eligibility Requirements

    Applications may be submitted by foreign and domestic, for-profit and
   not-for-profit organizations, public and private, such as universities,
         colleges, hospitals, laboratories, units of State and local
        governments, and eligible agencies of the Federal government.
         Racial/ethnic minority individuals, women, and persons with
      disabilities are encouraged to apply as principal investigators.

                                  Inquiries

      Inquiries are strongly encouraged. The opportunity to clarify any
          issues or questions from potential applicants is welcome.

             Direct inquiries regarding programmatic issues to:

                            Wendy B. Smith, Ph.D.
           Office of Cancer Complementary and Alternative Medicine
                          National Cancer Institute
                            Executive Plaza North
                             6130 Executive Blvd
                            Suite #102, MSC 7302
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-7302
                          Telephone: (301) 435-7980
                             FAX: (301) 480-0075
                         Email: smithwe@mail.nih.gov

                          Mary Ann Richardson, DrPH
         National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
                       6707 Democracy Blvd, Suite 102
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-5475
                          Telephone: (301) 402-1272
                             FAX: (301) 480-3621
                         Email: marich@mail.nih.gov

                Direct inquiries regarding fiscal matters to:

                              Ms. Eileen Natoli
                        Grants Administration Branch
                          National Cancer Institute
                                EPS-Room 243
                          Bethesda, Maryland 20892
                          Telephone: (301) 496-8791
                             FAX: (301) 496-8601
                       Email: natolie@gab.nci.nih.gov

                Direct inquiries regarding review matters to:

                            NCI Referral Officer
                      Division of Extramural Activities
                          National Cancer Institute
                6116 Executive Boulevard, Room 8109, MSC 8329
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-8329
              Rockville, MD 20852 (for express/courier service)
                          Telephone: (301) 496-3428
                             Fax: (301) 402-0275
                      Email: ncidearefof-r@mail.nih.gov

                            Dr. Martin Goldrosen
                              Office of Review
         National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
                       6707 Democracy Blvd., Suite 106
                                  MSC 5475
                        Bethesda, Maryland 20892-5475
                          Telephone: (301) 496-4792
                             Fax: (301) 480-2419
                        Email: goldrosm@mail.nih.gov

                              Letter of Intent

    Prospective applicants are asked to submit a Letter of Intent by the
    dates listed above that includes a descriptive title of the proposed
     research, the name, address, and telephone number of the Principal
    Investigator, the identities of other key personnel and participating
    institutions, and the number and title of the PA in response to which
    the application may be submitted. Although a Letter of Intent is not
      required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a
     subsequent application, the information that it contains allows IC
    staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.

   The Letter of Intent is to be sent to Dr. Wendy B. Smith at the address
                           listed under Inquiries.

                           Application Procedures

     The PHS 398 research grant application instructions and forms (rev.
   5/2001) at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html must
      be used in applying for these grants and will be accepted at the
   standard application deadlines (http://grants.nih.gov/grants/dates.htm)
     as indicated in the application kit. This version of the PHS 398 is
               available in an interactive, searchable format.

   The modular grant concept establishes specific modules in which direct
       costs may be requested as well as a maximum level for requested
     budgets. Only limited budgetary information is required under this
   approach. The just-in-time concept allows applicants to submit certain
      information only when there is a possibility for an award. It is
    anticipated that these changes will reduce the administrative burden
                for the applicants, reviewers and NIH staff.

   All clinical trials supported or performed by NIH require some form of
   monitoring. The method and degree of monitoring should be commensurate
     with the degree of risk involved in participation and the size and
   complexity of the clinical trial. Monitoring exists on a continuum from
   monitoring by the principal investigator/project manager or NIH program
    staff to a Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). These monitoring
      activities are distinct from the requirement for study review and
   approval by an Institutional Review Board (IRB). For details about the
     Policy of the NCI for Data Safety Monitoring of Clinical Trials see
    http://deainfo.nci.nih.gov/grantspolicies/datasafety.htm. For NCCAM's
               Policy and guidelines on safety monitoring see
    http://nccam.nih.gov/fi/research/guidelines/safety.html. For Phase I
   and II clinical trials, investigators must submit a general description
       of the data and safety-monitoring plan as part of the research
    application. See NIH Guide Notice on "Further Guidance on a Data and
         Safety Monitoring for Phase I and II Trials" for additional
                                information:
     http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-00-038.html.
     Information concerning essential elements of data safety monitoring
         plans for clinical trials funded by the NCI is available at
         http://cancertrials.nci.nih.gov/researchers/dsm/index.html.

            Specific Instructions for Modular Grant Applications

   The modular grant concept establishes specific modules in which direct
       costs may be requested as well as a maximum level for requested
     budgets. Only limited budgetary information is required under this
   approach. The just-in- time concept allows applicants to submit certain
      information only when there is a possibility for an award. It is
    anticipated that these changes will reduce the administrative burden
       for the applicants, reviewers and NIH staff. The research grant
                  application form PHS 398 (rev. 5/2001) at
    http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html is to be used
   in applying for these grants, with modular budget instructions provided
                in Section C of the application instructions.

   The title and number of the program announcement must be typed on line
     2 of the face page of the application form and the YES box must be
                                   marked.

   Submit a signed, typewritten original of the application, including the
    checklist, and three signed, exact, single-sided photocopies, in one
                                 package to:

                        Center for Scientific Review
                        National Institutes of Health
                 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1040 - MSC 7710
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-7710
              Bethesda, MD 20817 (for express/courier service)

     To expedite the review process, at the time of submission, send two
                  additional copies of the application to:

                            NCI Referral Officer
                          National Cancer Institute
                6116 Executive Boulevard, Room 8109, MSC 8329
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-8109
             Rockville, MD 20852 (for overnight/courier service)
                          Telephone: (301) 496-3428
                             FAX: (301) 402-0275

      Applications must be received by the receipt dates listed at the
                   beginning of this program announcement.

                            Review Considerations

      Applications will be reviewed for completeness by the Center for
     Scientific Review. Incomplete applications will be returned to the
   applicant without further consideration. Applications that are complete
   will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate
         scientific review group convened by the National Center for
   Complementary and Alternative Medicine and National Cancer Institute in
   accordance with the standard NIH peer review procedures. As part of the
   initial merit review, all applications will receive a written critique,
    and may undergo a process in which only those applications deemed to
        have the highest scientific merit, generally the top half of
      applications under review, will be discussed, assigned a priority
    score, and receive a second level review by the appropriate national
               council or advisory board of participating ICs.

                               Review Criteria

    The five criteria to be used in the evaluation of grant applications
                              are listed below.

   The goals of NIH-supported research are to advance our understanding of
   biological systems, improve the control of disease, and enhance health.
   The reviewers will comment on the following aspects of the application
    in their written critiques in order to judge the likelihood that the
     proposed research will have a substantial impact on the pursuit of
   these goals. Each of these criteria will be addressed and considered by
       the reviewers in assigning the overall score weighting them as
    appropriate for each application. Note that the application does not
   need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have a major
   scientific impact and thus deserve a high priority score. For example,
     an investigator may propose to carry out important work that by its
     nature is not innovative but is essential to move a field forward.

   Because the exploratory/developmental grant mechanism (R21) is designed
        to support innovative ideas, preliminary data as evidence of
     feasibility of the project are not required. However, the applicant
      does have the responsibility for developing a sound research plan
    approach, including appropriate statistical analyses and sample size
   calculations where appropriate. Innovation of the project and potential
    significance of the proposed research will be major considerations in
                      the evaluation of this mechanism.

    1. Significance. Does this study address an important problem? If the
   aims of the application are achieved, how will scientific knowledge be
    advanced? What will be the effect of these studies on the concepts or
                       methods that drive this field?

       2. Approach. Are the conceptual framework, design, methods, and
   analyses adequately developed, well-integrated, and appropriate to the
    aims of the project? Does the applicant acknowledge potential problem
                   areas and consider alternative tactics?

    3. Innovation. Does the project employ novel concepts, approaches, or
       method? Are the aims original and innovative? Does the project
        challenge existing paradigms or develop new methodologies or
                                technologies?

     4. Investigator. Is the investigator appropriately trained and well
   suited to carry out this work? Is the work proposed appropriate to the
    experience level of the principal investigator and other researchers
                                  (if any)?

   5. Environment. Does the scientific environment in which the work will
      be done contribute to the probability of success? Do the proposed
       experiments take advantage of unique features of the scientific
      environment or employ useful collaborative arrangements? Is there
                     evidence of institutional support?

                 The initial review group will also examine:
     * the appropriateness of proposed project budget and duration;
     * the adequacy of plans to include both genders, minorities (and
       their subgroups), and children as appropriate for the scientific
       goals of the research and plans for the recruitment and retention
       of subjects;
     * the provisions for the protection of human and animal subjects;
     * the safety of the research environment;
     * the adequacy of the proposed plan to share data

                               Award Criteria

      Award criteria that will be used to make award decisions include:
     * scientific merit (as determined by peer review)
     * availability of funds
     * programmatic priorities.

   Inclusion of Women and Minorities in Research Involving Human Subjects

    It is the policy of the NIH that women and members of minority groups
       and their sub-populations must be included in all NIH-supported
   clinical research projects unless a clear and compelling justification
   is provided indicating that inclusion is inappropriate with respect to
   the health of the subjects or the purpose of the research. This policy
   results from the NIH Revitalization Act of 1993 (Section 492B of Public
                                Law 103-43).

   All investigators proposing clinical research should read the AMENDMENT
    "NIH Guidelines for Inclusion of Women and Minorities as Subjects in
   Clinical Research - Amended, October, 2001," published in the NIH Guide
                 for Grants and Contracts on October 9, 2001
   (http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-02-001.html); a
          complete copy of the updated Guidelines are available at
   http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/women_min/guidelines_amended_10_20
    01.htm. The amended policy incorporates: the use of an NIH definition
        of clinical research; updated racial and ethnic categories in
      compliance with the new OMB standards; clarification of language
   governing NIH-defined Phase III clinical trials consistent with the new
    PHS Form 398; and updated roles and responsibilities of NIH staff and
      the extramural community. The policy continues to require for all
     NIH-defined Phase III clinical trials that: a) all applications or
      proposals and/or protocols must provide a description of plans to
   conduct analyses, as appropriate, to address differences by sex/gender
   and/or racial/ethnic groups, including subgroups if applicable; and b)
     investigators must report annual accrual and progress in conducting
     analyses, as appropriate, by sex/gender and/or racial/ethnic group
                                differences.

      Inclusion of Children as Participants in Research Involving Human
                                  Subjects

   It is the policy of NIH that children (i.e., individuals under the age
    of 21) must be included in all human subjects research, conducted or
   supported by the NIH, unless there are clear and compelling scientific
     and ethical reasons not to include them. This policy applies to all
   initial (Type 1) applications submitted for receipt dates after October
                                  1, 1998.

    All investigators proposing research involving human subjects should
     read the "NIH Policy and Guidelines on the Inclusion of Children as
    Participants in Research Involving Human Subjects" that was published
      in the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts, March 6, 1998, and is
                   available at the following URL address:
       http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not98-024.html.

     Investigators also may obtain copies of the policy from the program
   staff listed under Inquiries. Program staff may also provide additional
                 relevant information concerning the policy.

     Required Education in the Protection of Human Research Participants

    All investigators proposing research involving human subjects should
    read the NIH policy on education in the protection of human research
   participants now required for all investigators, which is published in
    the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts, June 5, 2000 (Revised August
             25, 2000), available at the following URL address:
    http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-00-039.html. A
   continuing education program in the protection of human participants in
        research is now available online at http://cme.nci.nih.gov/.

    Public Access to Research Data Through the Freedom of Information Act

      The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-110 has been
    revised to provide public access to research data through the Freedom
    of Information Act (FOIA) under some circumstances. Data that are (1)
   first produced in a project that is supported in whole or in part with
   Federal funds and (2) cited publicly and officially by a Federal agency
    in support of an action that has the force and effect of law (i.e., a
        regulation) may be accessed through FOIA. It is important for
     applicants to understand the basic scope of this amendment. NIH has
                            provided guidance at
     http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/a110/a110_guidance_dec1999.htm.
    Applicants may wish to place data collected under this PA in a public
     archive, which can provide protections for the data and manage the
    distribution for an indefinite period of time. If so, the application
   should include a description of the archiving plan in the study design
   and include information about this in the budget justification section
    of the application. In addition, applicants should think about how to
       structure informed consent statements and other human subjects
    procedures given the potential for wider use of data collected under
                                 this award.

                URLs in NIH Grant Applications or Appendices

    All applications and proposals for NIH funding must be self-contained
   within specified page limitations. Unless otherwise specified in an NIH
    solicitation, Internet addresses (URLs) should not be used to provide
     information necessary to the review because reviewers are under no
     obligation to view the Internet sites. Reviewers are cautioned that
       their anonymity may be compromised when they directly access an
                               Internet site.

                             Healthy People 2010

    The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health
   promotion and disease prevention objectives of "Healthy People 2010," a
       PHS led national activity for setting priority areas. This PA,
    Developmental/Pilot Projects in Cancer Complementary and Alternative
    Medicine, is related to priority area of cancer and seeks to increase
   life expectancy and quality of life. Potential applicants may obtain a
   copy of "Healthy People 2010" at http://www.health.gov/healthypeople/.

                          Authority and Regulations

   This program is described in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance
         No. 93.395 (NCI) and 93.213 (NCCAM). Awards are made under
   authorization of Sections 301 and 405 of the Public Health Service Act
      as amended (42 USC 241 and 284) and administered under NIH grants
   policies and Federal Regulations 42 CFR 52 and 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92.
         This program is not subject to the intergovernmental review
   requirements of Executive Order 12372 or Health Systems Agency review.

        The PHS strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a
    smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products.
       In addition, Public Law 103-227, the Pro-Children Act of 1994,
   prohibits smoking in certain facilities (or in some cases, any portion
     of a facility) in which regular or routine education, library, day
   care, health care, or early childhood development services are provided
     to children. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and
       advance the physical and mental health of the American people.

                      << Back to Program Announcements

     __________________________________________________________________

     NCCAM Home / For Investigators /
          Funding Opportunities      [Menu...______________________] Go
        Please send questions and comments to nccam@nccam.nih.gov.
