http://www.ne.nrcs.usda.gov/schick.html

   Message From Steve Chick

   Home NE Photo Gallery Hot Topics and News Directory N R D ' s RC&D
   Helpful Links Technical Resources Programs and Services Career
   Opportunities Volunteer

                         The Father of Conservation

   In 1935 the "father of soil conservation," Hugh Hammond Bennett, cited
   the following vision for the newly created Soil Conservation Service:

     "It was decided that we would work with nature, and not against her.
     And above all, we would not undertake to do the job by inviting
     farmers into a comfortable room to tell them what to do back on
     their farms. Our specialists will go out on the farmer's land with
     the farmer her/himself and there decide, cooperatively with her/him
     what could and should be done in each of the fields, each pasture,
     woodlot, gully to conserve soil and water. This decision must be
     reached on the basis of degree of erosion, the slope, kind of soil,
     and then a plan must be drawn up for carrying out a complete and
     properly integrated soil conservation job on the entire farm."

   Nearly 65 years later our name has changed to the Natural Resources
   Conservation Service (NRCS) to better reflect the mission of addressing
   all of the natural resources needs on private lands, but Bennett's
   vision of providing field-based technical assistance to landusers is
   just as appropriate today. Nationally NRCS serves private landusers to
   address 907 million acres of privately owned cropland, pasture,
   rangeland and woodland.
   At the heart of Bennett's proactive approach to conservation was his
   vision for local leadership through a national network of conservation
   districts to which he referred,

     "One of the best, and certainly the most promising, of devices yet
     invented by man for dealing democratically and effectively with
     maladjustment in land use, as well as for carrying forward positive
     programs of desirable conservation, and for maintaining the work, is
     the soil conservation district."

   In Nebraska, NRCS is meeting Hugh Hammond Bennett's vision by providing
   assistance through what Bennett would certainly agree is the ultimate
   in conservation districts, our 23 watershed based Natural Resources
   Districts. We are meeting private landusers needs through 81 field
   offices and 7 Resource Conservation & Development (RC&D) offices. We
   are committed to addressing the conservation needs of 23 million acres
   of rangeland, 19 million acres of cropland and 8 million acres of
   irrigated lands. Our 240 field-based technical specialists are out on
   the land utilizing many Federal, state and local programs to help
   landusers fulfill their dreams through a voluntary incentive-based
   approach.

                                [ablrule.gif]



   [blue_bar.gif]
   Partner Links: NRCS | USDA | NACD | FSA | RD | FS | CSREES
   [blue_bar.gif]

   United States Department of Agriculture
   Natural Resources Conservation Service
   Nebraska State Office
   100 Centennial Mall North, Room 152
   Lincoln, NE 68508
   Webmaster
