http://www.bphc.hrsa.dhhs.gov/news/lettergaston.htm

   Emergency Response and the Potential Role of Health Centers

   In the wake of the events of September 11, the Bureau of Primary Health
   Care (BPHC) recognizes the potential need for federally-funded health
   centers to be fully integrated into their community’s emergency
   management and disaster response networks. The strong response by
   Health Centers in the areas affected by the tragic events underscores
   that Health Centers have both the experience and capacity to be
   effective in participating in a disaster response campaign to
   biological or other threats and can play an important role in assisting
   other local clinicians in delivering these critical emergency services.
   I encourage you to expand your awareness of your local emergency
   preparedness system and give serious consideration to becoming directly
   involved.

   We suggest that you consider the following items, among others:
     * Evaluating Health Center’s capacity to respond to a local emergency
       before committing to assist.
     * Identifying the local emergency management agency and taking the
       opportunity to identify your Center and its capacity to participate
       in planning and emergency response activities.
     * Establishing "contact trees" for your staff, local authorities,
       BPHC and Field Office contacts, etc.
     * Considering how you will communicate with staff, local authorities
       and patients in the event of a loss in regular communication
       ability. Determining what types of radio communications are
       available in your area.
     * Evaluating your capacity to remain operational, including emergency
       "back-up" power and refrigeration.
     * Evaluating what emergency supplies will be used or needed as
       applicable. Coordinating inventory and re-supply of emergency items
       through your local emergency response network.

   The following link will connect you to a document entitled,
   Bioterrorism Readiness Plan: A Template for Health Care Facilities. It
   was developed for the CDC by the Association of Professionals in
   Infection Control and Epidemiology, Inc., and can serve as a framework
   should you opt to get started in developing your Disaster Preparedness
   Plan.

   http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/hip/Bio/13apr99APIC-CDCBioterrorism.PDF

   BPHC Policy Assistance Letter 2002-02 (PDF format), distributed to all
   Health Centers, details the need for each center to have a basic
   emergency preparedness plan and should include bioterrorism response as
   a significant component. Since the development of a basic emergency
   preparedness plan is a Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare
   Organizations (JCAHO) requirement for accreditation and is sound
   management for a clinical facility, many Health Centers already have
   one in place.  In that case, I encourage you to review and update the
   existing plan in accordance with the new guidance.

   (signed)

   Marilyn Hughes Gaston, M.D.
   Associate Administrator for Primary Health Care

   Back to BPHC Home Page
