http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/nominations/


   Skip to Content text only go to search President News Vice President
   History & Tours First Lady Search
   Welcome to the White House.
   Government Kids Only Espanol Contact Privacy Policy SiteMap
   __________ Search


   West Wing Connections
   Policies in Focus
   America Responds to Terrorism
   Homeland Security
   Economy & Budget
   Education Reform
   Medicare
   Social Security
   More Issues
   En Español

   News
   Current News
   Press Briefings
   Proclamations
   Nominations
   Executive Orders
   Radio Addresses
   Discurso Radial
   (en Español)
   Appointments
   Application
   Photos
   Photo of President Bush preparing for his State of the Union address.
   Photo Essays
   An American Response
   Standing for the Flag
    Home > News & Policies > Nominations by Name

   Bush Administration Nominations by Name

   Nominations by Date
   A-B | C-E | F-I | J-L | M-Q | R-T | U-Z


   First Name Last Name Position
      Scott Abdallah a United States Attorney for the District of South
                                   Dakota
    Charles S. Abell Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management
    Kathleen Q. Abernathy Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission
                     Spencer Abraham Secretary of Energy
       F. Duane Ackerman National Security Telecommunications Advisory
                                  Committee
         R. Alex Acosta Member of the National Labor Relations Board
     Adela Acosta Member of the President's Commission on Excellence in
                              Special Education
    Lance M. Africk United States District Judge for the Eastern District
                                of Louisiana
    Grant D. Aldonas Member of the Congressional-Executive Commission on
                       the People's Republic of China
    Grant D. Aldonas Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade
    Pete Aldridge Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology
                                and Logistics
      Edward C. Aldridge Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and
                                 Technology
        Joe M. Allbaugh Director, Federal Emergency Management Agency
        Claude A. Allen Deputy Secretary of Health and Human Services
    Peter F. Allgeier Deputy United States Trade Representative (rank of
                                 Ambassador)
    Everett Alvarez Jr. Chairman of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed
                 Services University of the Health Sciences
    Theresa Alvillar-Speake Director, Office of Minority Economic Impact,
                            Department of Energy
     Henry Anderson Member of the Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker
                                   Health
   Percy Anderson United States District Judge for the Central District of
                                 California
      Herbert W. Anderson National Security Telecommunications Advisory
                                  Committee
    Antonio Andrade Member of the Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker
                                   Health
     Angela Antonelli Chief Financial Officer, Department of Housing and
                              Urban Development
      Cresencio S. Arcos Member of the President's Foreign Intelligence
                               Advisory Board
    George L. Argyros Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
                United States of America to Spain and Andorra
    Othoniel (Tony) Armendariz Member, Federal Labor Relations Authority
    M. Christina Armijo United States District Judge for the District of
                                 New Mexico
               Richard Lee Armitage Deputy Secretary of State
        John Ashcroft Member, James Madison Commemoration Commission
                       John Ashcroft Attorney General
    Victor Henderson Ashe Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal
                        National Mortgage Association
       Thelma J. Askey Commissioner, United States International Trade
                                 Commission
           Thelma J. Askey Director, Trade and Development Agency
         David Aufhauser General Counsel, Department of the Treasury
              Dionel M. Aviles Assistant Secretary of the Navy
     Judith Elizabeth Ayres Assistant Administrator of the Environmental
               Protection Agency for International Activities
   Alex Azar, III General Counsel, Department of Heath and Human Services
   Vicki A. Bailey Assistant Secretary of Energy for International Affairs
                             and Domestic Policy
      Sheila C. Bair Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial
                                Institutions
    Howard Baker, Jr. Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
                      United States of America to Japan
    Jim Barksdale Member of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory
                                    Board
               Jo Anne Barnhart Commissioner, Social Security
    Ruben Barrales Deputy Assistant to the President and Director, Office
                        of Intergovernmental Affairs
       Hector V. Barretto Administrator, Small Business Administration
   Andrea G. Barthwell Deputy Director for Demand Reduction of the Office
                       of National Drug Control Policy
    Steve Bartlett Member of the President's Commission on Excellence in
                              Special Education
    Michael A. Battle United States Attorney for the Western District of
                                  New York
       John D. Battle United States District Judge for the District of
                                  Columbia
    Vincent Martin Battle Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
           the United States of America to the Republic of Lebanon
   William Baxter Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley
                                  Authority
       Michael M. Baylson United States District Judge for the Eastern
                          District of Pennsylvania
    Lawrence Richard Bearden Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
       Glen Thomas Becerra Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
      Brenda L. Becker Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Legislative
                                   Affairs
       Jean Loretta Becker Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
      Everet  Beckner Deputy Administrator for Defense Programs at the
                            Department of Energy
         Julius E. Becton American Battlefield Monuments Commission
      Charlotte L. Beers Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy
    Arden Bement Jr. Director of the National Institute of Standards and
                  Technology at the Department of Commerce
     Juan Carlos Benitez Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair
                            Employment Practices
    William Harry Berdine White House Commission on Excellence in Special
                                  Education
   Romolo A. Bernardi Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
    Stuart Bernstein Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
                     United States of America to Denmark
   Stephen E. Biegun Executive Secretary of the National Security Council
    Susan Schmidt Bies Member, Board of Governors, Federal Reserve System
                             (Seventh District)
    Robert E. Blackburn United States District Judge for the District of
                                  Colorado
   Robert D. Blackwill Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
              United States of America to the Republic of India
   Dan Gregory Blair Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management
                 Francis S. Blake Deputy Secretary of Energy
      Marion Blakey Member of the National Transportation Safety Board
   J. Richard Blankenship Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
                 the United States of America to the Bahamas
        Lawrence J. Block Judge for the U.S. Court of Federal Claims
      Lincoln P. Bloomfield Assistant Secretary of State for Political
                              Military Affairs
     Steven Robert Blust Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission
                Samuel W. Bodman Deputy Secretary of Commerce
     Daniel G. Bogden United States Attorney for the District of Nevada
       John Robert Bolton Undersecretary of State for Arms Control and
                       International Security Affairs
    Claude M. Bolton Jr. Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition
                          Logistics and Technology
    Clifford G. Bond Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
             United States of America to Bosnia and Herzegovina
    Robert C. Bonner Commissioner of Customs, Department of the Treasury
        Carmel Borders National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board
   Molly Hering Bordonaro Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal
                        National Mortgage Association
    Eric M. Bost Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition, and
                              Consumer Services
     Eric M. Bost Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation
   Karon O. Bowdre United States District Judge for the Northern District
                                 of Alabama
         Shirlee Bowné Member of the Federal Housing Finance Board
     Ralph Leo Boyce Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
            United States of America to the Republic of Indonesia
     Ralph F. Boyd, Jr. Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights
                                  Division
                    Jane J. Boyle United States Attorney
    Jennifer Cabranes Braceras Member of the United States Commission on
                                Civil Rights
         Patrick H. Brady American Battlefield Monuments Commission
        Terry Edward Branstad Member of the President's Commission on
                       Excellence in Special Education
     Stephen Brauer Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
                     United States of America to Belgium
    Nancy Goodman Brinker Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of
                   the United States of America to Hungary
         Carole L. Brookins United States Executive Director of the
            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
     Susan W. Brooks United States Attorney for the Southern District of
                                   Indiana
          Linton F. Brooks Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear
         Nonproliferation, National Nuclear Security Administration
              Dan R. Brouillette Assistant Secretary of Energy
             Reginald Jude Brown Assistant Secretary of the Army
    Michael D. Brown Deputy Director of the Federal Emergency Management
                                   Agency
       John B. Brown III Deputy Administrator of the Drug Enforcement
                 Administration of the Department of Justice
    Lyons Brown, Jr. Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the
                     United States of America to Austria
       Nora Mead Brownell Member, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
                               (Reappointment)
     John L. Brownlee United States Attorney for the Western District of
                                  Virginia
                  R.L. Brownlee Under Secretary of the Army
   Elizabeth Ann Bryan Member of the President's Commission on Excellence
                            in Special Education
     Daniel J. Bryant Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs
   Nancy Southard Bryson General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture
    Mary Beth Buchanan United States Attorney for the Western District of
                                Pennsylvania
   David L. Bunning United States District Judge for the Eastern District
                                 of Kentucky
    Timothy M. Burgess United States Attorney for the District of Alaska
       Daniel P. Burnham National Security Telecommunications Advisory
                                  Committee
   Christopher Bancroft Burnham Chief Financial Officer at the Department
                                  of State
      Scott M. Burns Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs in the
                   Office of National Drug Control Policy
   R. Nicholas Burns United States Permanent Representative to the Council
        of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (rank of Ambassador
                     Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary)
    William J. Burns Assistant Secretary of State (Near Eastern Affairs)
      Kathleen Burton Clarke Director of the Bureau of Land Management
   David C. Bury United States District Judge for the District of Arizona
    Mary K. Bush Director of the Board of Directors for the Student Loan
                            Marketing Association
   Paula C. Butterfield Member of the President's Commission on Excellence
                            in Special Education

   Picture of White House logo, which features the White House inside an
   oval.
   Press Briefings
   Press Briefing by White House Press Secretary
   Press Briefing Archives
   Radio Address
   President's Radio Address to the Nation
   Discurso Radial del Presidente a la Nacion
   Radio Address Archive
   Archivos - Discursos Radial del Presidente
   News & Speeches
   January 2002
   December 2001
   November 2001
   October 2001
   September 2001
   August 2001
   July 2001
   June 2001
   May 2001
   April 2001
   March 2001
   February 2001
   January 2001
   Proclamations
   National Mentoring Month
   Proclamation Archives
   Executive Orders
   Federal Facts
   Federal Statistics
   West Wing
   History

   President  |  Vice President  |  First Lady  |  Mrs. Cheney  |  News &
   Policies  |
   History & Tours |  Kids  |  Your Government  |  Appointments  |
   Contact |  Text only

   Accessibility  |  Search  |  Privacy Policy  |  Help
