http://www.fedstats.gov/agencies/

              Statistical Agencies
              Back to Fedstats home page | Topic links - A to Z


                  Federal Agencies with Statistical Programs


   Skip this navigation menu

                                      A

   B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Principal
   Statistical
   Agencies


                  Administration for Children and Families
        in the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) collects
   information for the evaluation of its programs for children and youth,
     such as Head Start, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, child
   support enforcement, adoption assistance, foster care, child care, and
                            child abuse programs.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                           Administration on Aging
     in HHS conducts statistical activities in support of the research,
     analysis, and evaluation of programs to meet the needs of an aging
                                 population.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
      formerly known as the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research,
      supports research designed to improve the outcomes and quality of
      health care, reduce its costs, address patient safety and medical
       errors, and broaden access to effective services. The research
     sponsored, conducted, and disseminated by AHRQ provides information
   that helps people make more informed decisions and improve the quality
                         of health care services. .

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
              Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
   as an agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, is to
      prevent exposure and adverse human health effects and diminished
    quality of life associated with exposure to hazardous substances from
   waste sites, unplanned releases, and other sources of pollution present
                             in the environment.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                        Agricultural Research Service
   conducts continuing surveys to monitor the food consumption and related
      behavior of the U.S. population. The data are used to monitor the
     nutritional adequacy of American diets, measure the impact of food
    fortification on nutrient intakes, develop dietary guidance, estimate
      exposure of population groups to food contaminants, evaluate the
    nutritional impact of food assistance programs, and assess the demand
                         for agricultural products.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
     provides leadership in ensuring the health and care of animals and
    plants, improving agricultural productivity and competitiveness, and
         contributing to the national economy and the public health.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                   Bureau of Economic Analysis Top of Page
   is responsible for the preparation, development, and interpretation of
      the National Income and Product Accounts, summarized by the Gross
    Domestic Product (GDP); the wealth accounts, which show the business
     and other components of national wealth; the input-output accounts,
    which trace the interrelationships among industrial markets; personal
     income and related economic series by geographic area; and the U.S.
       balance of payments accounts and associated foreign investment
                                  accounts.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                        Bureau of Justice Statistics
   collects, analyzes, publishes, and disseminates statistical information
    on crime, criminal offenders, victims of crime, and the operations of
   the justice system at all levels of government and internationally. It
   also provides technical and financial support to state governments for
    development of criminal justice statistics and information systems on
                             crime and justice.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                         Bureau of Labor Statistics
        produces statistics on employment and unemployment; consumer
       expenditures; prices and living conditions; wages and employee
    benefits; productivity and technological changes in U.S. industries;
     projections of economic growth, the labor force, and employment by
      industry and occupation; and occupational injuries and illnesses.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
             Bureau of Land Management (Temporarily Unavailable)
   within the Department of the Interior, is responsible for managing 264
      million acres of land--about one-eighth of the land in the United
    States--and about 300 million additional acres of subsurface mineral
   resources. The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) is also responsible for
    wildfire management and suppression on 388 million acres. Most of the
       lands the BLM manages are located in the western United States,
    including Alaska, and are dominated by extensive grasslands, forests,
     high mountains, arctic tundra, and deserts. The BLM manages a wide
    variety of resources and uses, including energy and minerals; timber;
    forage; wild horse and burro populations; fish and wildlife habitat;
      wilderness areas; archaeological, paleontological, and historical
     sites; and other natural heritage values. (Temporarily Unavailable)

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                            Bureau of the Census
     demographic statistics program provides information on the number,
   geographic distribution, and social and economic characteristics of the
     nation. Also, conducts several periodic censuses every five years,
     covering the years ending in 2 and 7. The Economic Censuses include
   censuses of manufacturing, mineral industries, construction industries,
   retail and wholesale trade, service industries, and transportation and
    other businesses. The Census of Governments collects state and local
         data on public finance; public employment; and governmental
                    organization, powers, and activities.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                     Bureau of Transportation Statistics
    compiles, analyzes, and makes accessible information on the Nation's
         transportation systems; collects information on intermodal
   transportation and other areas as needed; and enhances the quality and
        effectiveness of DOT's statistical programs through research,
      development of guidelines, and promotion of improvements in data
                            acquisition and use.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
           Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Top of Page
    in the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) collects health
      data standards, scientific data, surveillance, health statistics
     reports and laboratory information to promote health and quality of
     life by preventing and controlling disease, injury, and disability.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                 Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services
     formerly known as the Health Care Financing Administration provides
   health insurance through Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP. In addition to
      providing health insurance, CMS activities include regulation of
          laboratory testing, development of coverage policies, and
   quality-of-care improvement. CMS maintains oversight of the survey and
   certification of nursing homes and continuing care providers (including
     home health agencies, intermediate care facilities for the mentally
       retarded, and hospitals), and makes available to beneficiaries,
     providers, researchers and State surveyors information about these
                    activities and nursing home quality.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                      Center for Mental Health Service
   pursues its mission by helping States improve and increase the quality
   and range of their treatment, rehabilitation, and support services for
    people with mental illness, their families, and communities. Further,
   it encourages a range of programs-such as systems of care-to respond to
     the increasing number of mental, emotional, and behavioral problems
    among America's children. CMHS supports outreach and case management
   programs for the thousands of Americans with severe mental illness who
   are homeless, and supports the development and adoption of "models" for
                             improving services.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                    Center for Substance Abuse Prevention
    within the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
   (SAMHSA) an agency of HHS, provides national leadership in the Federal
     effort to prevent alcohol, tobacco, and illicit drug problems. CSAP
      fosters the development of comprehensive, culturally appropriate
      prevention policies and systems that are based on scientifically
   defensible principles and target both individuals and the environments
    in which they live. CSAP also participates in the development of new
      knowledge about prevention, disseminates it in a "user friendly"
    manner, and encourages its application in settings where it is likely
                    to prevent or reduce substance abuse.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                    Center for Substance Abuse Treatment
    within SAMHSA, was created with a congressional mandate to expand the
    availability of effective treatment and recovery services for alcohol
      and drug problems. Initiatives and programs are based on research
    findings and the general consensus of experts in the addiction field.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                         Central Intelligence Agency
    is an independent federal government agency that engages in research,
         development, and deployment of high-leverage technology for
        intelligence purposes. As a separate agency, CIA serves as an
    independent source of analysis on topics of concern and works closely
    with the other organizations in the Intelligence Community to ensure
      that the intelligence consumer--whether Washington policymaker or
       battlefield commander--receives the best intelligence possible.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                     Community Planning and Development
       within the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
    administers the grant programs that help communities plan and finance
    their growth and development, increase their capacity to govern, and
              provide shelter and services for homeless people.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                     Consumer Product Safety Commission
     an independent Federal regulatory agency, helps protect the public
      against unreasonable risks of injuries and deaths associated with
                             consumer products.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                 Department of Veterans Affairs Top of Page
    is an independent agency that administers the laws providing benefits
         and other services to veterans and their dependents and the
    beneficiaries of veterans. To serve veterans and their families with
   dignity and compassion and be their principal advocate in ensuring that
      they receive medical care, benefits, social support, and lasting
   memorials promoting the health, welfare, and dignity of all veterans in
                recognition of their service to this Nation.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
             Directorate for Information Operations and Reports
    is the source of statistical information on the Department of Defense

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                       Drug Enforcement Administration
       is responsible for enforcing the controlled substances laws and
    regulations of the United States and bring to the criminal and civil
    justice system of the United States those organizations and principal
     members of organizations, involved in the growing, manufacture, or
     distribution of controlled substances appearing in or destined for
     illicit traffic in the United States; and to recommend and support
   non-enforcement programs aimed at reducing the availability of illicit
      controlled substances on the domestic and international markets.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                    Economic Research Service Top of Page
   in the Department of Agriculture, provides economic analyses to support
     a competitive agricultural system, a safe food supply, healthy well
   nourished population, harmony between agriculture and the environment,
              and enhanced quality of life for rural Americans.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                     Employment Standards Administration
    the largest agency within the U.S. Department of Labor, enforces and
        administers laws governing legally-mandated wages and working
    conditions, including child labor, minimum wages, overtime and family
     and medical leave; equal employment opportunity in businesses with
    federal contracts and subcontracts; workers' compensation for certain
   employees injured on their jobs; internal union democracy and financial
      integrity, and union elections, which protect the rights of union
   members; and other laws and regulations governing employment standards
                               and practices.

     Contact Information
                   Employment and Training Administration
        mission is to contribute to the more efficient and effective
     functioning of the U.S. labor market by providing high quality job
   training, employment, labor market information, and income maintenance
      services primarily through State and local workforce development
                                  systems.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                      Energy Information Administration
       collects and disseminates data on energy reserves, production,
         consumption, distribution, prices, technology, and related
      international, economic, and financial matters. Coverage of EIA's
    programs includes data on coal, petroleum, natural gas, electric, and
                               nuclear energy.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                       Environmental Protection Agency
    monitors the quality of the air; the quality of drinking, surface and
      ground water; ecosystem status; and the introduction of toxic or
     hazardous substances into the environment. It conducts research and
        studies to provide baseline data and to evaluate and support
                      environmental monitoring systems.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                   Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
       is an independent federal government agency that promotes equal
        opportunity in employment through administrative and judicial
   enforcement of the federal civil rights laws and through education and
                            technical assistance.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                 Federal Aviation Administration Top of Page
   is responsible for the safety and certification of aircraft and pilots,
       for the security of our airports, and for the around-the-clock
            operation of our nation's air traffic control system.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                       Federal Bureau of Investigation
   mission is rigorous obedience to the Constitution of the United States;
   respect for the dignity of all those we protect; compassion; fairness;
          and uncompromising personal and institutional integrity.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                          Federal Bureau of Prisons
   was established in 1930 to provide more progressive and humane care for
    Federal inmates, to professionalize the prison service, and to ensure
      consistent and centralized administration of Federal prisons. The
   Bureau protects public safety by ensuring that Federal offenders serve
   their sentences of imprisonment in institutions that are safe, humane,
                  cost-efficient, and appropriately secure.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                      Federal Communications Commission
   is an independent United States government agency, directly responsible
   to Congress. The FCC was established by the Communications Act of 1934
         and is charged with regulating interstate and international
     communications by radio, television, wire, satellite and cable. The
   FCC's jurisdiction covers the 50 states, the District of Columbia, and
                              U.S. possessions.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    mission is to maintain the stability of and public confidence in the
    nation's financial system. To achieve this goal, the FDIC has insured
     deposits and promoted safe and sound banking practices since 1933.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                       Federal Highway Administration
      performs its mission through these main programs: The Federal-Aid
    Highway Program - provides federal financial assistance to the States
    to construct and improve the National Highway System, urban and rural
   roads, and bridges. The program provides funds for general improvements
    and development of safe highways and roads. The Federal Lands Highway
     Program - provides access to and within national forests, national
    parks, Indian reservations and other public lands by preparing plans,
   letting contracts, supervising construction facilities, and conducting
                       bridge inspections and surveys.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                       Federal Railroad Administration
   within the Department of Transportation, promotes safe, environmentally
    sound, successful railroad transportation to meet current and future
                           needs of all customers.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                            Federal Reserve Board
      duties fall into four general areas: (1) conducting the nation's
    monetary policy; (2) supervising and regulating banking institutions
     and protecting the credit rights of consumers; (3) maintaining the
   stability of the financial system; and (4) providing certain financial
    services to the U.S. government, the public, financial institutions,
                     and foreign official institutions.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                       Federal Transit Administration
       within the Department of Transportation provides financial and
             technical assistance to the local transit systems.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                    Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Service
   in the Department of Agriculture reduces hunger and food insecurity in
    partnership with cooperating organizations by providing children and
   needy families access to food, a healthful diet and nutrition education
     in a manner that supports American agriculture and inspires public
                                 confidence.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                        Foreign Agricultural Service
     has primary responsibility for the U.S. Department of Agriculture's
   overseas programs -- market development, international trade agreements
        and negotiations, and the collection of statistics and market
     information. It also administers USDA's export credit guarantee and
    food aid programs and helps increase income and food availability in
      developing nations by mobilizing expertise for agriculturally led
                              economic growth.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
          Health Resources and Services Administration Top of Page
    directs national health programs that improve the Nation's health by
     assuring equitable access to comprehensive, quality health care for
      all. HRSA works to improve and extend life for people living with
   HIV/AIDS, provide primary health care to medically underserved people,
     serve women and children through State programs, and train a health
     workforce that is both diverse and motivated to work in underserved
                                communities.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
             Immigration and Naturalization Service Top of Page
    is a Federal agency within the Department of Justice that administers
     the nation's immigration laws. Conducts immigration inspections of
     travelers entering (or seeking entry) to the United States as they
   arrive at officially designated ports of entry. Regulates permanent and
      temporary immigration to the U.S., also maintains control of U.S.
                                  borders.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                            Indian Health Service
   is an agency within the Department of Health and Human Services and is
    responsible for providing federal health services to American Indians
      and Alaska Natives. The IHS is the principal federal health care
     provider and health advocate for Indian people, and its goal is to
    assure that comprehensive, culturally acceptable personal and public
     health services are available and accessible to American Indian and
                            Alaska Native people.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
              Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics
     provides easy access to federal and state statistics and reports on
        children and their families, including: population and family
       characteristics, economic security, health, behavior and social
      environment,and education. Reports of the Forum include America's
     Children: Key National Indicators of Well-Being, the annual Federal
   monitoring report on the status of the Nation's children, and Nurturing
                                 Fatherhood.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
           Internal Revenue Service, Statistics of Income Division
     provides annual income, financial, and tax data based on individual
    returns, business returns (including corporations, partnerships, and
    sole proprietorships), and returns filed by tax-exempt organizations.
    SOI also provides periodic data and in-depth analyses based on other
    returns, such as those filed by estates, as well as those related to
   employment taxes, excise taxes, gift taxes, employee plans, tax-exempt
                 bonds, trusts, and the international area.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                     International Trade Administration
        helps U.S. businesses participate fully in the growing global
      marketplace. We provide practical information to help you select
        markets for your products. We ensure that you have access to
   international markets as required by our trade agreements. We safeguard
   you from unfair competition from dumped and subsidized imports. ITA is
   headed by the Under Secretary for International Trade who oversees the
        operations of ITA's four units: The Commercial Service, Trade
    Development, Market Access and Compliance, and Import Administration.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                     Maritime Administration Top of Page
     overall mission is to promote the development and maintenance of an
    adequate, well-balanced, United States merchant marine, sufficient to
      carry the Nation's domestic waterborne commerce and a substantial
   portion of its waterborne foreign commerce, and capable of serving as a
     naval and military auxiliary in time of war or national emergency.
      MARAD also seeks to ensure that the United States enjoys adequate
   shipbuilding and repair service, efficient ports, effective intermodal
   water and land transportation systems, and reserve shipping capacity in
                         time of national emergency.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                    Mine Safety and Health Administration
    within the Department of Labor is to administer the provisions of the
    Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 (Mine Act) and to enforce
     compliance with mandatory safety and health standards as a means to
     eliminate fatal accidents; to reduce the frequency and severity of
   nonfatal accidents; to minimize health hazards; and to promote improved
    safety and health conditions in the Nation's mines. MSHA carries out
      the mandates of the Mine Act at all mining and mineral processing
       operations in the United States, regardless of size, number of
            employees, commodity mined, or method of extraction.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
            Minerals Management Service (Temporarily Unavailable)
    manages the mineral resources on the Nation's Outer Continental Shelf
    in an environmentally sound and safe manner; and to collect, verify,
    and distribute, in a timely fashion, mineral revenues generated from
    Federal (onshore and offshore) and Indian lands. MMS manages two very
    important programs, the Offshore Minerals Management Program and the
            Royalty Management Program. (Temporarily Unavailable)

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
          National Aeronautics and Space Administration Top of Page
      remains a leading force in scientific research and in stimulating
      public interest in aerospace exploration, as well as science and
        technology in general. Since its inception in 1958, NASA has
    accomplished many great scientific and technological feats in air and
     space. NASA technology also has been adapted for many non-aerospace
                         uses by the private sector.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                  National Agricultural Statistics Service
    collects, summarizes, analyzes, and publishes agricultural production
     and marketing data on a wide range of items; statistical highlights
      summarize frequently requested data for the most recent year. An
   extensive collection of reports and datasets cover the number of farms
    and land in farms; acreage, yield, production, and stocks of grains,
   hay, oilseeds, cotton, potatoes, tobacco, fruits, selected vegetables,
   floriculture, and selected specialty crops; inventories and production
      of hogs, cattle, sheep and wool, goats and mohair, mink, catfish,
    trout, poultry, eggs, and dairy products; prices received by farmers
     for products, prices paid for commodities and services, and related
   indexes; cold storage supplies; agricultural chemical use; and related
     areas of the agricultural economy. Estimates for approximately 120
    crops and 45 livestock items are published in 400 reports each year.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                          National Cancer Institute
   is part of the National Institutes of Health and is organized into the
      Office of the Director and eight Divisions each specializing in a
                    different aspect of cancer research.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                  National Center for Education Statistics
    collects, analyzes, and publishes statistics on education and public
     school district finance information in the United States; conducts
      studies on international comparisons of education statistics; and
   provides leadership in developing and promoting the use of standardized
     terminology and definitions for the collection of those statistics.
    Also supports the Data Analysis System (DAS) and the National Public
                               School Locator.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                    National Center for Health Statistics
       responsible for the collection, analysis, and dissemination of
       statistics on the nature and extent of the health, illness, and
   disability of the U.S. population; the impact of illness and disability
   on the economy; the effects of environmental, social, and other health
     hazards; the use of health care services; health resources; family
   formation, growth, and dissolution; and vital events (i.e., births and
    deaths). CDC also provides data on morbidity, infectious and chronic
     diseases, occupational diseases and injuries, vaccine efficacy, and
                               safety studies.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                           National Eye Institute
    supports more than 80 percent of the vision research conducted in the
   U.S. at approximately 250 medical centers, hospitals, universities, and
   other institutions. In addition, the Institute conducts studies in its
   own facilities to combat the myriad of eye disorders affecting millions
                            of people worldwide.

     Contact Information
                  National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute
    plans, conducts, fosters, and supports an integrated and coordinated
       program of basic research, clinical investigations and trials,
      observational studies, and demonstration and education projects.
   Research is related to the causes, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment
   of heart, blood vessel, lung, and blood diseases; and sleep disorders.
    It also supports research on clinical use of blood and all aspects of
                     the management of blood resources.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
               National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
       under the U.S. Department of Transportation, is responsible for
     reducing deaths, injuries and economic losses resulting from motor
    vehicle crashes. This is accomplished by setting and enforcing safety
    performance standards for motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment,
     and through grants to state and local governments to enable them to
              conduct effective local highway safety programs.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
            National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease
   provides the major of support for scientists conducting research aimed
      at developing better ways to diagnose, treat and prevent the many
      infectious, immunologic and allergic diseases that afflict people
                                 worldwide.

     Contact Information
    National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Disease
    is a component of the National Institutes of Health. NIAMS leads the
    Federal effort on research into the causes, treatment, and prevention
     of arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases, the training of
      basic and clinical scientists to carry out this research, and the
     dissemination of information on research progress to improve public
   health. NIAMS supports and conducts basic, clinical, and epidemiologic
     research and research training at universities and medical centers
                           throughout the Nation.

     Contact Information
          National Institute of Child Health and Human Development
   conducts and supports laboratory, clinical and epidemiological research
      on the reproductive, neurobiologic, developmental, and behavioral
    processes that determine and maintain the health of children, adults,
                          families and populations.

     Contact Information
            National Institute of Dental & Craniofacial Research
   mission is to the promote the general health of the American people by
   improving their oral, dental and craniofacial health. Through nurturing
   fundamental research and the development of researchers, the NIDCR aims
    to promote health, to prevent diseases and conditions, and to develop
                      new diagnostics and therapeutics.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
      National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases
     conducts and supports research on many of the most serious diseases
    affecting public health. The Institute supports much of the clinical
   research on the diseases of internal medicine and related subspecialty
              fields as well as many basic science disciplines.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
             National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences
    mission is to reduce the burden of human illness and dysfunction from
    environmental causes by understanding each of these elements and how
          they interrelate. The NIEHS achieves its mission through
       multidisciplinary biomedical research programs, prevention and
      intervention efforts, and communication strategies that encompass
      training, education, technology transfer, and community outreach.

     Contact Information
                        National Institute of Health
   today is one of the world's foremost medical research centers, and the
   Federal focal point for medical research in the U.S. The NIH is one of
   eight health agencies of the Public Health Services which, in turn, is
      part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and is
              comprised of 25 separate Institutes and Centers.

     Contact Information
           National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
     conducts, fosters, coordinates, and guides research on the causes,
     prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of neurological disorders and
      stroke, and supports basic research in related scientific areas.
        Provides grants-in-aid to public and private institutions and
      individuals in fields related to its areas of interest, including
   research project, program project, and research center grants. Conducts
    a diversified program of intramural and collaborative research in its
                  own laboratories, branches, and clinics.

     Contact Information
                   National Institute of Nursing Research
    supports clinical and basic research to establish a scientific basis
    for the care of individuals across the life span--from management of
     patients during illness and recovery, to the reduction of risks for
      disease and disability, and the promotion of healthy lifestyles.

     Contact Information
                         National Institute on Aging
    leads a broad scientific effort to understand the nature of aging and
   to extend the healthy, active years of life. In 1974, Congress granted
     authority to form the NIA to provide leadership in aging research,
   training, health information dissemination, and other programs relevant
    to aging and older people. Subsequent amendments to this legislation
   designated the NIA as the primary federal agency on Alzheimers disease
                                  research.

     Contact Information
             National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism
   supports and conducts biomedical and behavioral research on the causes,
          consequences, treatment, and prevention of alcoholism and
       alcohol-related problems. NIAAA also provides leadership in the
    national effort to reduce the severe and often fatal consequences of
                               these problems.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
      National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders
    is mandated to conduct and support biomedical and behavioral research
       and research training in the normal and disordered processes of
      hearing, balance, smell, taste, voice, speech, and language. The
     Institute also conducts and supports research and research training
    related to disease prevention and health promotion; addresses special
     biomedical and behavioral problems associated with people who have
   communication impairments or disorders; and supports efforts to create
         devices which substitute for lost and impaired sensory and
                           communication function.

     Contact Information
                      National Institute on Drug Abuse
   is to lead the Nation in bringing the power of science to bear on drug
   abuse and addiction. This charge has two critical components: The first
    is the strategic support and conduct of research across a broad range
       of disciplines. The second is to ensure the rapid and effective
   dissemination and use of the results of that research to significantly
     improve drug abuse and addiction prevention, treatment, and policy.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                      National Marine Fisheries Service
      is a part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   (NOAA). NMFS administers NOAA's programs which support the domestic and
    international conservation and management of living marine resources.
         NMFS provides services and products to support domestic and
    international fisheries management operations, fisheries development,
      trade and industry assistance activities, enforcement, protected
     species and habitat conservation operations, and the scientific and
            technical aspects of NOAA's marine fisheries program.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
               National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
     is to describe and predict changes in the Earth's environment, and
    conserve and wisely manage the Nation's coastal and marine resources.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
          Science Resources Statistics, National Science Foundation
    collects, publishes, and analyzes statistics on the Nation's science
   and engineering higher educational system and those who participate in
      it. The Division measures science and engineering enrollments and
    degrees and develops information on other aspects of higher education
     through the use of outside data. The Directorate for Education and
   Human Resources supports international assessments of student knowledge
      and curriculum, as well as contextual studies and indicators that
              monitor progress under NSF educational programs.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                   Natural Resources Conservation Service
   is a Federal agency that works in partnership with the American people
   to conserve and sustain our natural resources. To provide leadership in
   a partnership effort to help people conserve, improve, and sustain our
                     natural resources and environment.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
          Occupational Safety and Health Administration Top of Page
   within the Department of Labor has approximately 2100 inspectors, plus
       complaint discrimination investigators, engineers, physicians,
   educators, standards writers, and other technical and support personnel
    spread over more than 200 offices throughout the country. This staff
   establishes protective standards, enforces those standards, and reaches
       out to employers and employees through technical assistance and
                           consultation programs.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
      Office of the Asst Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, Dept of
                          Health and Human Services
     is the principal advisor to the Secretary of the U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services on policy development, and is responsible for
      major activities in the areas of policy coordination, legislation
    development, strategic planning, policy research and evaluation, and
                             economic analysis.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
            Office of the Director, National Institutes of Health
    provides leadership and direction for NIH programs and activities and
    advises the Secretary of Health and Human Services in the formulation
                         of national health policy.

     Contact Information
               Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight
    primary mission is ensuring the capital adequacy and financial safety
    and soundness of two government-sponsored enterprises -- the Federal
    National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan
                     Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac).

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                       Office of Management and Budget
     assists the President in overseeing the preparation of the Federal
   budget and supervises its administration in Executive Branch agencies.
    In helping to formulate the President's spending plans, OMB evaluates
       the effectiveness of agency programs, policies, and procedures,
     assesses competing funding demands among agencies, and sets funding
     priorities. OMB ensures that agency reports, rules, testimony, and
     proposed legislation are consistent with the President's budget and
                        with Administration policies.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
               Office of Scientific and Technical Information
    within the Department of Energy is to collect, preserve, disseminate,
    and leverage the scientific and technical information (STI) resources
    of the Department of Energy to provide access to national and global
     STI for use by DOE, the scientific research community, academia, US
    industry, and the public to expand the knowledge base of science and
                                 technology.

     Contact Information
        Office of the Secretary of Defense, Deputy Asst Secretary for
                               Administration
    is the assistant and advisor to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of
      Defense on DoD-wide organizational and administrative management
                                  matters.

     Contact Information
                  Office of the Secretary of Transportation
    is the principal adviser to the President in all matters relating to
      federal transportation programs. The Secretary is assisted by the
   Deputy Secretary in this role. OST oversees the formulation of national
     transportation policy and promotes intermodal transportation. Other
        responsibilities range from negotiation and implementation of
     international transportation agreements, assuring the fitness of US
    airlines, enforcing airline consumer protection regulations, issuance
        of regulations to prevent alcohol and illegal drug misuse in
      transportation systems and preparing transportation legislation.

     Contact Information
                  Office of Policy Development and Research
    within the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development supports
   the Department's efforts to help create cohesive, economically healthy
   communities. PD&R is responsible for maintaining current information on
     housing needs, market conditions, and existing programs, as well as
      conducting research on priority housing and community development
                                   issues.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                     Office of Public Health and Science
      is under the direction of the Assistant Secretary for Health, who
   serves as the Senior Advisor on public health and science issues to the
   Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS). The Office serves as the
    focal point for leadership and coordination across the Department in
   public health and science; provides direction to program offices within
     OPHS; and provides advice and counsel on public health and science
                          issues to the Secretary.

     Contact Information
                     Office of Public and Indian Housing
   ensures safe, decent, and affordable housing; creates opportunities for
   residents' self-sufficiency and economic independence; and assures the
                fiscal integrity of all program participants

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
       Office of the Asst Secretary for Environment, Safety and Health
      within the Department of Energy advises the Secretary and senior
    management on the status of environment, safety and health within the
   Department and is the Departmental advocate for excellence in programs
    to protect the environment, the health and safety of workers and the
                          public at DOE facilities.

     Contact Information
                  Small Business Administration Top of Page
      is an independent agency of the Federal government which provides
   financial, technical and management assistance to help Americans start,
   run, and grow their businesses. The SBA also plays a major role in the
    government's disaster relief efforts by making low-interest recovery
                  loans to both homeowners and businesses.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
     Social Security Administration, Office of Research, Evaluation, and
                                 Statistics
   collects, tabulates, and publishes data on the Old-Age, Survivors, and
     Disability Insurance (OASDI) and Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
      programs and their beneficiary populations. The SSA also performs
     actuarial and demographic research to assess the impact of program
                          changes or alternatives.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                                  Stat-USA
   a service of the U.S. Department of Commerce, is the site for the U.S.
       business, economic and trade community, providing authoritative
                  information from the Federal government.

     Contact Information
          Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
        is the Federal agency charged with improving the quality and
    availability of prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation services in
       order to reduce illness, death, disability, and cost to society
            resulting from substance abuse and mental illnesses.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
            U.S. Agency for International Development Top of Page
      is an independent federal government agency that conducts foreign
    assistance and humanitarian aid to advance the political and economic
                       interests of the United States.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                        U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
   manage and execute engineering, construction, and real estate programs
      for the US Army and Air Force, and for other federal agencies and
   foreign governments as assigned; to supervise research and development
    in support of these programs; to manage and execute Army installation
     support programs; to develop and maintain capability to mobilize in
    response to national security emergencies, domestic emergencies, and
        emergency water planning programs; and to support Army space
                                initiatives.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                            U.S. Customs Service
    is the primary enforcement agency protecting the Nation's borders. It
      is the only border agency with an extensive air, land, and marine
                             interdiction force.

     Contact Information
                       U.S. Department of Agriculture
    mission is to enhance the quality of life for the American people by
     supporting production of agriculture: ensuring a safe, affordable,
      nutritious, and accessible food supply; caring for agricultural,
       forest, and range lands; supporting sound development of rural
      communities; providing economic opportunities for farm and rural
       residents; expanding global markets for agricultural and forest
     products and services; and working to reduce hunger in America and
                            throughout the world.

     Contact Information
                          U.S. Department of Energy
   is a leading science and technology agency whose research supports our
   nation's energy security, national security, environmental quality, and
          contributes to a better quality of life for all Americans

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
    is the United States government's principal agency for protecting the
    health of all Americans and providing essential human services. These
    services include more than 300 programs, covering a wide spectrum of
   activities. Some of these programs include: Medical and social science
       research; preventing outbreak of infectious disease, including
       immunization services; assuring food and drug safety; financial
       assistance for low-income families; child support enforcement;
   improving maternal and infant health; Head Start (pre-school education
   and services); preventing child abuse and domestic violence; substance
   abuse treatment and prevention; services for older Americans, including
      home-delivered meals; comprehensive health services delivery for
                    American Indians and Alaska Natives.

     Contact Information
              U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development
   is the Federal agency responsible for national policy and programs that
   address America's housing needs, that improve and develop the Nation's
    communities, and enforce fair housing laws. HUD's business is helping
   create a decent home and suitable living environment for all Americans,
      and it has given America's cities a strong national voice at the
                               Cabinet level.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
          U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Temporarily Unavailable)
   is the only agency of the U.S. Government whose primary responsibility
   is fish, wildlife, and plant conservation. The Service helps protect a
   healthy environment for people, fish and wildlife, and helps Americans
   conserve and enjoy the outdoors and our living treasures. The Service's
     major responsibilities are for migratory birds, endangered species,
         certain marine mammals, and freshwater and anadromous fish.
                          (Temporarily Unavailable)

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                           U.S. Geological Survey
      serves the Nation by providing reliable scientific information to
    describe and understand the Earth; minimize loss of life and property
    from natural disasters; manage water, biological, energy, and mineral
           resources; and enhance and protect our quality of life.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics
                             USDA Forest Service
     mission is to achieve quality land management under the sustainable
   multiple-use management concept. It includes: Advocating a conservation
    ethic in promoting the health, productivity, diversity, and beauty of
     forests and associated lands. Protecting and managing the National
       Forests and Grasslands so they best demonstrate the sustainable
     multiple-use management concept. Providing technical and financial
   assistance to State and private forest landowners, encouraging them to
   practice good stewardship and quality land management in meeting their
    specific objectives. Providing technical and financial assistance to
   cities and communities to improve their natural environment by planting
                     trees and caring for their forests.

     Contact Information

     Key Statistics

   [ Top of page ]

   Skip this navigation menu
   _______________________________________________________________________

        Fedstats - www.fedstats.gov/
        About Fedstats
        Send your feedback to Fedstats      Your privacy on this site
                                       Accessibilty on this site
                                       for persons with disabilities
