http://www.pswcrl.ars.usda.gov/welcome.htm

               [usdalogo.gif]    [Title.jpg]    [arslogo.gif]

   Welcome to the PSWCRL Web Site!  The Plant Science and
   Water Conservation Research Laboratory is a research resource of the
   Agricultural Research Service, the largest agricultural research
   organization in the world. The Agricultural Research Service is the
   primary scientific research agency of the United States Department of
   Agriculture.  The Plant Science and Water Conservation
   Research Laboratory is divided into two primary research units.  The
   Wheat, Peanut, and Other Field Crops Research Unit focuses on
   developing alternatives to chemical pesticides to protect plants from
   insect and disease pests, while the Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit
   focuses on developing safe and effective hydraulic structures to
   control surface water runoff

              Wheat, Peanut, and Other Field Crops Research Unit
                     Hydraulic Engineering Research Unit
                             Personnel Directory
                      Southern Plains Area Biometrician
                             Employee Mailcheck
                              Links of Interest
                            Organizational Chart
                      Areawide Pest Management Program

   The USDA-ARS Plant Science and Water conservation Research Laboratory
   is committed to making its web sites accessible to all USDA customers
   and employees. All of the agency web sites are undergoing review and
   redesign as necessary to ensure that they meet or exceed the
   requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

   Many of our web sites currently meet the Section 508 accessibility
   standards. Furthermore, the USDA-ARS Plant Science and Water
   conservation Research Laboratory continues to work on making all web
   sites accessible. Thank you very much for your patience through this
   redesign process. If you have any comments or suggestions for
   improvement, please contact the Web Master of this page.

                            Contact the webmaster
