http://www.buyers.gov/welcome.html

                              Buyers.Gov Header

                        [spacer01.gif] [spacer08.gif]

                               [spacer124.gif]
                                   Welcome
                             How To Buy Or Sell
                                News & Links
                              Question & Answer
                        [spacer01.gif] [spacer10.gif]

                               Welcome Header
    Welcome to Buyers.Gov, the eGovernment Business and Auction exchange.
   Buyers.Gov is a new and innovative eGovernment exchange that is managed
       and administered by GSA Federal Technology Service (FTS). This
        eGovernment site is operated by a government organization for
   government organizations. Buyers.Gov is an operational pilot that will
        implement auctioning and aggregation capabilities within the
    Government. FTS has taken a different track to develop the Buyers.Gov
   capability. Rather than purchasing software and technical expertise to
   develop and implement a system, FTS has chosen to take the best of what
    is available in the commercial space and modify it to meet government
   standards. The success of this new concept rests entirely in the hands
    of government purchasers such as yourselves. We will appreciate your
    feedback since ultimately we will all benefit from it. Types Of Tools
                                   Header
        Buyers.Gov consists of three eGovernment procurement tools or
                                 strategies:

                              Private Auctions
    Private Auction is typically referred to as a reverse auction, where
   the goal is to drive prices to natural market levels rather than drive
      prices up. Private Auction can be used for any procurement where
   price/performance tradeoffs can be easily evaluated. The Public Auction
     can be used in a best value evaluation or low price evaluation. The
    private auction allows for real time, dynamic price negotiations. All
        that is needed is to augment or replace the traditional price
   submission instructions with those developed by FTS. FTS is trained in
    the use of private auction systems and will be glad to assist you to
                  plan for a Private Auction. |learn more|

                                    eFAST
     eFAST provides the capability of aggregating government purchasing
   power for commonly purchased products. Aggregation can be an effective
      tool for purchasing small quantities of product by combining the
    individual small quantities into a group with substantive quantities
    for a specific product. The price of the product will be posted, and
    will decrease as more buyers purchase the product. Quantity discounts
   and unit price reductions will vary by product, quantity price breaks,
    and source of supply. All buyers of a product aggregation event will
    benefit from the total purchases when the event closes, regardless of
     when they made their purchase during that event. The eFAST products
   focus on a limited set of products with the products being available on
      a random basis. For example, the product Brand X, Model 9, may be
      available for purchase starting on Monday, June 9, at 9:00 am and
       ending Wednesday, June 10, at 7:00 pm. The product might not be
   available again until August. Therefore it is a good idea to check the
     site frequently or ask to receive advanced notification of upcoming
      events of interest to you. GSA FTS takes care of all procurement
   regulations under eFAST. All you have to do is make your selection and
    wait for the product to be delivered. You the buyer can even initiate
                     an aggregation event. |learn more|

                                 Quick Quote
    Quick Quote offers the capability to issue a Request For Quote (RFQ)
   and receive quotes from selected sources of supply. Quick Quote is more
    of a full service store where the buyers can purchase as little or as
    many commodities as necessary. The buyer may even use Quick Quote to
    generate a list of commodities through the use of a shopping cart and
    then transfer the shopping cart to a private auction for procurement.
   This tool is under development and is not currently available for use.
                                |learn more|

                                   | Top |


                        [spacer10.gif] [spacer01.gif]
                            [bottom_line600.gif]


             © Copyright 2000, Buyers.Gov. All rights reserved.
                                 Disclaimer
