http://www.ffiec.gov/info_services.htm

   Skip Repetitive Links Federal Financial Institutions Examination
   Council Logo linking back to the home page.



      Site Index

                                            Search

                                                  Disclaimer

                                                            Privacy Policy


   What's New
   About the FFIEC
   Press Releases
   Reports
   Reporting Forms
   Handbooks & Catalogues
   Enforcement Actions
   and Orders
   On-line Information Systems


   Other FFIEC Sites
   Examiner Education Office
   Appraisal Subcommittee
   HMDA
   CRA


   On-line Information Systems

   Consumer Information     Financial Institution Information
   Geocoding/Mapping System FFIEC Internet Reporting System - UBPR
   Census Report System     National Information Center - BHCPR
   HMDA Data Reports        Call and Thrift Financial Reports (TFR)
   MICA Data Reports        FDIC Institution Directory
   CRA Data Reports
   Interagency CRA Ratings



   Geocoding/Mapping System Allows retrieval of MSA, State, County, and
   Census Tract/BNA codes for street addresses. It is primarily intended
   to assist financial institutions covered by the Home Mortgage
   Disclosure Act (HMDA) and Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) to meet
   their reporting obligation. However, the system is also useful for
   obtaining demographic information (mainly population and income data).
   Census Report System Provides access to census data that the FFIEC uses
   to create the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) and Community
   Reinvestment Act (CRA) aggregate and disclosure reports.
   HMDA Data Reports
        - Aggregates
        - Disclosures
        - National Aggregates Provides access to HMDA aggregate,
   disclosure, and national aggregate reports produced from information
   submitted to the FFIEC.
   MICA Data Reports
        - Aggregates
        - Disclosures
        - National Aggregates Provides access to MICA aggregate,
   disclosure, and national aggregate reports produced from information
   submitted.
   CRA Data Reports
        - Aggregates
        - Disclosures
        - National Aggregates Provides access to CRA aggregate,
   disclosure, and national aggregate reports produced from composite
   information submitted to the FFIEC.
   Interagency CRA Ratings Provides access to the latest CRA ratings of
   financial institutions regulated by the Federal Reserve, the Office of
   the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance
   Corporation, and/or the Office of Thrift Supervision.
   FFIEC Internet Reporting System
        - Uniform Bank Performance Report
        - Peer Group Report
        - Peer Group Distribution Report
        - State Average Report
        - State Average Distribution Report Produces institution specific
   reports and aggregate reports.
   Federal Reserve System's National Information Center
        - Bank Holding Company
          Performance Report Provides comprehensive information on banks
   and other institutions for which the Federal Reserve has a supervisory,
   regulatory, or research interest including both domestic and foreign
   banking organizations operating in the U.S. The NIC includes the
   organizational structure of financial institutions and financial
   information for some of those institutions. Historical information is
   available on the structure of all the institutions. Financial
   information is available for selected time periods.
   Reports of Condition and Income (Call) and Thrift Financial Reports
   (TFR) Provides detailed public regulatory financial information for all
   FDIC-insured institutions. Users can retrieve facsimiles of the
   quarterly financial reports filed by financial institutions for each
   quarter beginning with the March, 1998 report.
   FDIC Institution Directory Provides the latest comprehensive financial
   data for every FDIC-insured institution, including the most recent
   quarterly balance sheets, income statements, performance and condition
   ratios.


   -HOME-

   Note: Many of the documents available on-line are in Adobe Portable
   Document Format (PDF). Please visit our PDF help page for more
   information.

   Maintained by the FFIEC. All suggestions regarding this site may be
   forwarded via e-mail to ffiec-suggest@frb.gov.
   Last update: 07/24/2001 5:38 PM
