http://regs.dot.gov/sbrefa.htm

                                      A

                                 COMPENDIUM

                                     OF

                        DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                          ACTIVITIES TO COMPLY WITH

                        THE SMALL BUSINESS REGULATORY

                      FAIRNESS ENFORCEMENT ACT (SBREFA)

                                APRIL 1,1998


                  GUIDANCE AND DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION

   Under section 213 of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness
   Act (SBREFA), agencies must establish a program to answer inquiries
   concerning information on, and advice about, compliance with statutes
   and regulations within their jurisdiction, and to interpret and apply
   the law to specific sets of facts supplied by the small entity.

   The Department has long taken its responsibility to small entities very
   seriously. Our agencies routinely interpret their regulations with
   respect to specific sets of facts supplied by small entities, and
   answer inquiries from small businesses through various means. The
   Department has too many diverse elements with diverse responsibilities
   to develop a single inquiry response program suitable for all small
   entities. These programs cover very different industries and companies
   -- such as airlines, disadvantaged businesses, or drug testing
   organizations -- that have varying degrees of sophistication. We have
   developed different inquiry response programs tailored to the needs of
   the entities we deal with, and we are constantly changing them to
   incorporate new technology or to make them more responsive. Many of
   these are in writing, but not published. To make it easy for small
   businesses to inquire about our rules from the day that they are
   issued, several of our agencies provide 800-numbers and the contact
   person for the rule. Depending upon the magnitude of the rule, we issue
   press releases, disseminate guidance materials, and conduct briefings
   on the requirements. For example, we conducted training courses for
   medical review officers that verify test results under our industry
   drug testing programs. We have participated in educational conferences
   concerning the compliance with the Americans With Disabilities Act. We
   also are continually putting rules and guidance on the Internet.

   In addition, throughout the Department, we have taken or are taking the
   following steps to make it easier for small entities to get information
   about our statutes and regulations:

   Points of Contact and Dissemination of Information. The Office of the
   Secretary (OST) is now in the process of redesigning the DOT home page
   and will include a small entities site with hyperlinks to other useful
   DOT sites. These would include contact points for many issues of
   special interest to small entities, such as: our Office of Small and
   Disadvantaged Business Utilization, our Office of Drug Enforcement and
   Program Compliance, our expert on the transportation aspects of the
   Americans With Disabilities Act, and our expert on Time Act issues. The
   Department also maintains a list of 800-numbers and “hotlines” that it
   gives to each employee to ensure that callers will be directed to the
   correct contact point. In addition, we are considering developing a
   resource booklet covering information about all of the DOT information
   contacts and services to further disseminate this information and other
   information of use to small entities.

   The Department also supplies plainly written news releases and/or
   personalized communications regarding regulatory requirements to small
   business trade organizations for their own distribution and sends them
   to the many specialized trade magazines and newsletters aimed at those
   audiences. In addition, we supply broadcast material, tapes, and
   interviews to radio stations throughout the country. We now are
   disseminating information in various ways to small entities about how
   they can comment to the Small Business Administration's National
   Ombudsman, who oversees SBREFA compliance, on enforcement activity
   conducted by DOT personnel.

   The Department's Internet addresses for our various operating
   administrations can be reached most conveniently through DOT's home
   page or through a central directory page put together by our Bureau of
   Transportation Statistics (BTS). These addresses contain selective
   reports, statistical information, orders, rules, and consumer
   information that relate to the different modes of transportation. BTS
   also provides a compendium of links to legal resources at another
   Internet site. New sites and additional information are going up all
   the time. All should be accessible through the above pages.

   Central Docket Management System (DMS) - To make its rulemaking and
   adjudicatory docket functions more streamlined and efficient and to
   provide better customer service, the Department has nearly completed
   the consolidation of its nine docket facilities for the various
   departmental elements into one centrally-managed facility, making a
   phased transition from a paper-based docket system to storage of
   electronic images in unalterable form, and standardizing docket
   procedures.

   These improvements allow DOT provide better service to users, many of
   whom are small entities, and increase their ability to participate in
   government processes. We have provided computer work stations in the
   DMS to give multiple simultaneous public users easier and more rapid
   access to the electronically stored information and more sophisticated
   search capability through an easy-to-use index. The DMS is now up on
   the Internet and the electronic docket is hyper-linked with the DOT
   home page. This especially benefits small entities that cannot afford
   to come to view the docket in Washington, DC. They can now review
   source documents and comments on their own computers. In the near
   future, they will be able to submit their own comments electronically.
   We also are exploring whether access for those without a computer can
   be provided through various Federal sites. In total, this will greatly
   enhance the ability of everyone, especially small entities and
   individuals, to participate in our rulemaking process and ensure that
   any rules we issue are better because of this participation. Since
   December 1, 1997, the date the DMS officially went on-line, we have
   been averaging 4,000-6,000 “hits” per day accessing the electronic
   docket. The number of “hits” is increasing (we have had one day with
   10,000 “hits”) as word about the system spreads.

   Electronic Participation in Rulemakings. In a number of instances, we
   have conducted individual rulemakings with the aid of electronic mail.
   In our economic aviation orders, we provide electronic alternatives to
   paper comments by E-mail address or computer diskette. This makes
   commenting easier for small businesses and individual participants. A
   number of DOT organizations (e.g., Bureau of Transportation Statistics
   for aviation traffic and financial data) permit and encourage
   electronic filing of tariffs, applications, or other information
   required by regulations. Electronic filing is more efficient and less
   costly to the public and the Department.

   Briefings. We often brief small business and trade associations
   concerning our rules and programs and hold a series of public
   conferences throughout the country to discuss the rules in more detail.
   Agency representatives have also spoken at hundreds of conferences held
   by private organizations on these rules, ranging from industry
   conferences on Americans With Disabilities Act to training of
   professionals who have to implement its requirements.

   Staff Understanding of Small Businesses. The Department is committed to
   ensuring that its staff understand how DOT programs and requirements
   affect small businesses and has periodically conducted briefings and
   disseminated guidance material. The guidance material on SBREFA was
   circulated throughout the Department, to regional offices and to
   officials engaged in enforcement activities and in contact with the
   regulated industry.


   Office of the Secretary of Transportation (OST)

   The United States Coast Guard (USCG)

   Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)

   Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)

   Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA)

   The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation (SLSDC)

   Federal Transit Administration (FTA)

   Federal Railroad Administration (FRA)

   Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS)

   Maritime Administration (MARAD)

   National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)



                               C-50 Home Page

                                  Red Line


   Mission & Functions Regulatory Responsibilities List of Regulatory
   Responsibilities Regulatory Internet Sites Regulatory Agenda
     Reviews being Conducted under ß610 Activities to Implement SBREFA
   Small Entity Enforcement Policies
