http://www.safecities.gov/topics.cfm?ID=57

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Meet the
   SafeCities Network

   Find Your State

   Home
   SafeCities Logo

Hot Topics

   work together


   FINDING RESOURCES

   This section helps those engaged in public safety efforts to find
   federal and other resources that support their gun violence reduction
   efforts.


   1999 Gun Violence Grants

   THE JOYCE FOUNDATION supports efforts to reduce violence in the Great
   Lakes Region. This site lists This site lists organizations that
   received grants from the Joyce Foundation in 1999. All of these
   organizations are committed to reducing gun violence.

   Afterschool.gov

   One stop federal information for afterschool programs, funding and
   resources: transportation, snacks, mentors, recreation, computers, Web
   sites for kids and teens, etc. Sponsored by the Federal Support to
   Communities Initiative with the General Services Administration.

   Children's Bureau

   The oldest federal agency for children, the Children's Bureau (CB) is
   located within the United States Department of Health and Human
   Services' Administration for Children and Families, Administration on
   Children, Youth and Families. It is responsible for assisting States in
   the delivery of child welfare services - services designed to protect
   children and strengthen families. The agency provides grants to States,
   Tribes and communities to operate a range of child welfare services
   including child protective services (child abuse and neglect) family
   preservation and support, foster care, adoption and independent living.

   ChildStats.gov Related Sites

   ChildStat.gov's links to other Federal and non-Federal sites with
   statistics on child well-being.

   ChildStats: The Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family
   Statistics

   This web site offers easy access to federal and state statistics and
   reports on children and their families, including: population and
   family characteristics, economic security, health, behavior and social
   environment, and education. Reports of the Federal Interagency Forum on
   Child and Family Statistics include America's Children: Key National
   Indicators of Well-Being, the annual Federal monitoring report on the
   status of the Nation's children, and Nurturing Fatherhood. The Forum
   fosters coordination and collaboration in the collection and reporting
   of Federal statistics on children and families.

   COPS Office Grants and Training

   Here are the grants, programs and activities available from the U.S.
   Department of Justice Community Oriented Policing Services. COPS offers
   Hiring grants, equipment grants and innovative approaches to addressing
   public safety needs in a community.

   Crime Mapping Research Center at the National Institute of Justice

   Established in 1997, the goal of the Center is the promotion, research,
   evaluation, development, and dissemination of GIS (geographic
   information systems) technology and the spatial analysis of crime.

   Department of Housing & Urban Development Grants

   This is a list of funds available through the U.S. Department of
   Housing and Urban Development. HUD awards funds through a competitive
   process. These Notices of Funding Availability (NOFAs) will tell you
   what funds are available and how to apply. HUD has consolidated most of
   its grants into one SuperNOFA. Please note that the FY 2000 SuperNOFA
   has expired, and HUD is no longer taking applications. For more
   information about these programs you can call: HUD's Drug Information &
   Strategy Clearinghouse (DISC) 1-800-955-2232

   Department of Justice Formula Grant Contacts By State

   Many Department of Justice formula grants are awarded directly to state
   governments, which then set priorities and allocate funds within that
   state. This page gives you information on who to contact winthin your
   state for more information.

   Department of Justice's Office of Justice Programs Grants

   This is a list of current funding opportunities offered by the agencies
   within the Department of Justice's Office of Justice Programs. The
   agencies are: Bureau of Justice Assistance, Bureau of Justice
   Statistics, National Institute of Justice, Office of Juvenile Justice
   and Delinquency Prevention, and the Office for Victims of Crime. This
   page also provides funding information from the 1994 Crime Act Program
   offices: Violence Against Women Grant Office, Corrections Program
   Office, Drug Court Program Office and the Executive Office of Weed and
   Seed.

   Early Warning, Timely Response: A Guide to Safe Schools

   President Clinton and Secretary Riley directed the Department of
   Education and Department of Justice to develop a guide to help school
   personnel, parents, community members and others identify early
   indicators of troubling and potentially dangerous student behavior.
   Early Warning, Timely Response: A Guide to Safe Schools offers
   research-based practices designed to assist school communities identify
   these warning signs early and develop prevention, intervention and
   crisis response plans.

   Federal Funding

   Information on federal agencies, grants, contracts and other funding
   sources. Topics include funding for families and children, housing,
   public safety.

   Federal Grants: COPS MORE

   The COPS MORE (Making Officer Redeployment Effective) program is
   designed to expand the time available for community policing by current
   law enforcement officers through the funding of technology, equipment,
   and support staff including civilian personnel. The program is
   administered by the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services in
   the US Department of Justice.

   Federal Partners with Child Care

   The mission and goals of many Federal Agencies include activities which
   strengthen and support child care services across the country. The
   Child Care Bureau, as the primary source of Federal funding and support
   for child care, works with these Federal Partners in various capacities
   to promote a coordinated approach to serving families. The programs
   funded through Federal initiatives are designed to involve state and
   local communities in the planning and development of services that meet
   the needs of all children and families.

   FedStats

   More than 70 agencies in the United States Federal Government produce
   statistics of interest to the public. The Federal Interagency Council
   on Statistical Policy maintains this site to provide easy access to the
   full range of statistics and information produced by these agencies for
   public use.

   Firearms and Crime Statistics

   Publications and resources on Firearms and Crime Statistics from the
   Bureau of Justice Statistics.

   Funding Forecast from U.S. Department of Education

   Official announcements of grant applications, requests for comments,
   etc. from the U.S. Department of Education.

   Funding Sources

   Foundations and Federal agencies that offer funding for programs
   addressing issues of violence and youth-at-risk are listed here.
   Contact information, brief descriptions of the purposes of these
   funding organizationsand guidelines for applying for funds are
   contained in each file.

   Gun Violence Resources

   Gun violence resources and links from the Office of Juvenile Justice
   and Delinquency Prevention.

   Health Care Financing Administration

   HCFAs informational website on the State Children's Health Insurance
   Program (SCHIP). Contains state plan submissions, status reports, state
   contacts, activity map, plan approval information, enrollment status
   report, letters to state officials, outreach information and FAQs about
   SCHIP. This site also has links to all of the SCHIP regulations in the
   Federal Register. Links to the HCFA outreach clearinghouse with tools
   for states, schools, community organizations, advocates and others.

   Join Together Online

   Contains news and information on substance abuse, gun violence, federal
   funding and more!

   Juvenile Justice

   The "Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP)
   Proposed Comprehensive Plan for Fiscal Year 2000" provides information
   on programs that would receive continuation funding in FY 2000, and on
   areas that OJJDP is considering for new program funding.

   National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth

   NCFY is the Family and Youth Services Bureau's (FYSB's) central
   resource on youth and family policy and practice. FYSB is a Bureau
   within the Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF);
   Administration for Children and Families (ACF); U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services (DHHS). On this site, you will find
   information on new youth- and family-related materials and initiatives,
   NCFY publications for downloading, and more.

   National Criminal Justice Reference Service (NCJRS)

   The National Criminal Justice Reference Service (NCJRS) is one of the
   most extensive sources of information on criminal and juvenile justice
   in the world, providing services to an international community of
   policymakers and professionals. NCJRS is a collection of clearinghouses
   supporting all bureaus of the Department of Justice. Under Justice
   Grants, one can link to other funding sources such as the Commerce
   Business Daily and the Federal Register.

   National Governors Association

   The National Governors Association site contains issue papers on a
   variety of SCHIP issues, childrens issues, including policy papers,
   links to states, and best practices from state government, grant
   announcements, and survey instruments.

   National Governors Association & NGA Center for Best Practices

   NGA is the only bipartisan national organization of, by, and for the
   nations' Governors. Its members are the Governors of the fifty states,
   the commonwealths of the Northern Mariana Islands and Puerto Rico, and
   the territories of American Samoa, Guam, and the Virgin Islands. The
   Governors decided to form an association through which they could come
   together to discuss their mutual concerns and act collectively. Through
   NGA, the Governors identify priority issues and deal collectively with
   issues of public policy and governance at both the national and state
   levels.

   National Institute for Child Health and Development

   The National Institute for Child Health and Development conducts and
   supports laboratory, clinical and epidemiological research on the
   reproductive, neurobiologic, developmental, and behavioral processes
   that determine and maintain the health of children, adults, families
   and populations.

   National Institute of Justice Grants

   Proposals solicited to evaluate the multi-site demonstrations of
   enhanced collaboration among systems and the implementation of
   cross-system policy, staff development, and procedures.

   National Transit Resource Center: Federal Funding Sources

   Federal support for community transportation comes from many sources.
   While the major sources of support are programs of the Department of
   Transportation and the Department of Health and Human Services, many
   other federal agencies have programs which can be used to support
   community transportation activities. This section of the Resource Guide
   provides information for 41 of these federal programs, including
   several all-new welfare-to-work funding sources. The types of support
   they provide include capital assistance for vehicle and facility
   acquisition, operating assistance for transportation services,
   assistance with administrative costs, planning assistance and technical
   assistance.

   NCJRS Event Calendar

   The National Criminal Justice Research Service Events Calendar is a
   searchable comprehensive list of conferences, workshops, seminars, and
   other events relating to juvenile and criminal justice and drug control
   policy.

   Office of Justice Programs

   This office in the U.S. Department of Justice has a significant amount
   of information about grants and publications related to gun violence
   reduction.

   Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention

   The OJJDP Web site is designed to provide information and resources on
   both general areas of interest about juvenile justice and delinquency
   including conferences, funding opportunities, and new publications and
   the comprehensive strategy as a framework for communities to combat
   youth crime.

   OJJDPs Comprehensive Program Plan for Fiscal Year 2000

   The Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention has published
   this notice of its Final Program Plan for fiscal year (FY) 2000 in the
   Federal Register.

   Quinlan Publishing Electronic Bulletins on Public Safety Funding

   This Web site provides information about two electornic bulletines that
   list public safety resources: Funding Law Enforcement Hotline and
   National Bulletin on Domestic Violence Prevention.

   Resources for Child Care Funding

   The National Child Care Information Center has gathered a helpful list
   of funding sources and ideas for funding child care.

   Rural and Small Communities

   The National Center for Small Communities' "Keys to Successful Funding"
   describes the hallmarks of successful proposals for public and private
   grants and identifies federal and foundation resources for small and
   rural communities.

   Simon Funds Faith-Based Programs for Crime, Addiction

   Organizations in local communities that use faith-based approaches to
   address social problems such as crime, addiction, homelessness and
   poverty, and nonprofits that focus on at-risk youths, may be eligible
   for grants from the William E. Simon Foundation.

   Social Statistics Briefing Room

   This service provides easy access to current Federal social statistics.
   All of the information included in the Social Statistics Briefing Room
   is maintained and updated by the statistical units of Federal agencies.
   All of the estimates for the indicators presented in the Federal
   Statistics Briefing Room are the most up-to-date.

   Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)

   The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration is the
   Federal agency charged with improving the quality and availability of
   prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation services in order to reduce
   illness, death, disability, and cost to society resulting from
   substance abuse and mental illnesses.

   Substance Abuse Policy Research Program

   This site provides guidance on applying for the Substance Abuse Policy
   Research Program (SAPRP). Recent additions include information on
   strengthening grant proposals to SAPRP. Resources are available for
   grantees, media and policy makers.

   Tapping TANF Funds for Youth

   This publication describes how and when it is permissible to use TANF
   funds for youth-related activities and services and provides
   illustrations of how TANF funds are being spent on youth. An attachment
   provides information about some proven or promising youth programs
   which could be supported with TANF funds.

   The Chronicle of Philanthropy Internet Resources:

   This page on the Chronicle of Philanthropy Web site provides links to
   general grant informaiton and specific resources for professionals in
   the criminal justice field.

   The Finance Project

   The Finance Project is a national initiative to create knowledge and
   share information that will lead to the improved well-being of
   children, families, and communities.

   The National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug Information

   The National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug Information (NCADI) is
   the information service of the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention of
   the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in the
   U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. NCADI is the world's
   largest resource for current information and materials concerning
   substance abuse.

   Tools for Community Design and Decision-Making

   U.S. Department of Energy's broad-based solicitation for information
   dissemination.

   U.S. Department of Education's Discretionary Grant Application Packages

   Lists the U.S. Department of Education's currently open grant
   competitions.

   Welfare Information Network

   This site is a Clearinghouse for Information, Policy Analysis &
   Technical Assistance on Welfare Reform. This is a must see sight! Any
   type of welfare information imaginable can be found in this one place.
   Rural issues, evaluation strategies, events, publications, health
   insurance, and domestic violence are just a few of the sub-links within
   this site.

   YouthInfo

   YouthInfo is a website developed by the U.S. Department of Health and
   Human Services to provide you with the latest information about
   Americas adolescents.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
