http://plan.cancer.gov/planning.htm

   Skip Navigation
   Plans and Priorities for Cancer Research [USEMAP:navmap.gif]

                                            _____________ Search

                              Directors message
                              Executive summary
                           Highlights of progress
                             2003 Budget Request
    Scientific Priorities for Cancer Research Extraordinary Opportunities
          Infrastructure Needed for Cancer Research NCIs Challenge
                                  About NCI
           Planning National Agendas in Disease-Specific Research
     Additional Cancer Information for Patients and Health Professionals


Planning National Agendas for Disease-Specific Research

   printer Print this page
   envelope Email this page
   dictionary Define terms on this page

Progress Review Groups

   When I entered the clinical trial, my doctor said to me, "You are not
   going to die right away." This was a big surprise! I felt so bad and
   had been told that I could expect to live only a few more months. I
   just assumed I was at the end of the road. After several tries that
   failed, they finally found a treatment regimen that seems to have
   turned my cancer around - at least for now. This kind of thing is very
   unusual for pancreatic cancer. I have been so blessed and want others
   to know that there is hope.      - Christine, clinical trial patient

   Each of the 1,268,000 Americans who will be diagnosed with cancer this
   year will battle a very specific, very personal disease. While the
   hundred-plus distinct diseases we call "cancer" have several essential
   attributes in common, each type of cancer has its own unique
   characteristics that affect how it arises, how it progresses, and how
   it can be most effectively treated.

   And while we have learned much that is broadly applicable to all types
   of cancer through our core research programs and the initiatives of the
   Extraordinary Opportunities, we must be equally alert to the specific
   tendencies and behaviors of each cancer type. This is why NCI plans,
   promotes, and carries out an ambitious program of disease-specific
   research.
   About NCI's Progress Review Groups
   Response and Communication
   Highlights of PRG Recommendations
   Assessing the Impact of the PRGs
   People's Stories

                                                               Top of Page
   line

About NCI's Progress Review Groups

   NCI charts the course for its disease-specific efforts primarily
   through advice from expert Progress Review Groups (PRGs). The PRGs are
   panels of 20 to 30 prominent members of the scientific, medical, and
   advocacy communities that assess the state of the science for a single
   type of cancer or a group of closely related cancers and make
   recommendations for future research.

   Over a nine-month period, each PRG identifies:
     * Gaps in our understanding of the disease under study
     * Barriers to progress
     * Key research priorities

   The process culminates in the wide release of PRG findings and
   priorities in a comprehensive report. All PRG reports become road maps
   that guide NCI and the scientific community in their efforts to make
   progress against specific types of cancer. To date, six PRG reports
   have been issued. Six more PRGs are in progress or planned.

   View a listing of completed and upcoming PRG's.

   NCI's extensive slate of PRGs includes breast, prostate, lung, and
   other common types of cancer as well as less common diseases like
   pancreatic cancer, multiple myeloma, and brain tumors. By addressing
   these more unusual types of cancer through the PRGs, NCI hopes to raise
   awareness of the scientific opportunities afforded by each disease and
   to stimulate much-needed research.

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Response and Communication

   NCI responds rapidly and enthusiastically to PRG recommendations. For
   each PRG, NCI staff:
     * Form an internal working group of disease-specific experts to
       spearhead the Institute's response to the recommendations, identify
       gaps in our understanding, and propose new programs and initiatives
       where needed.
     * Thoroughly analyze the recommendations to determine the extent to
       which they are being addressed - or could be addressed - through
       existing programs or efforts.
     * Reconvene the PRG to discuss what we learn through this analysis
       and to clarify what gaps remain.
     * Develop strategies to implement the recommendations, particularly
       in gap areas.
     * Communicate our decisions to the scientific community and enlist
       their active participation in the implementation process.
     * Ensure that effective mechanisms are in place to implement
       decisions.
     * Follow up to ensure that the recommendations continue to be
       addressed.
     * Report on our results.

   To ensure that researcher and advocacy communities are aware of NCI's
   disease-specific priorities, NCI is developing a comprehensive,
   systematic plan for disseminating and promoting the PRG reports. To
   promote the priorities identified by various PRGs, information related
   to the PRGs is distributed:
     * At major medical meetings
     * In journals and newsletters
     * On the World Wide Web
     * In partnership with several advocacy groups

   Even with all these efforts in place, we recognize that the ultimate
   success of the PRG process depends on researchers' ability and
   willingness to undertake research projects in disease-specific areas of
   critical need. NCI encourages the scientific community to respond to
   its disease-specific priorities by:
     * Treating the PRG reports as Broad Program Announcements that
       indicate the most pressing needs and opportunities, and
     * Notifying the community about current funding opportunities that
       address the PRGs' recommendations through its Cancer Research
       Initiatives web site
     * Giving special consideration in the funding exceptions process to
       grant applications that reference a PRG report.

   Consumer advocates also play a key role in the PRGs and their
   follow-up. Advocates are involved throughout the PRG process, serving
   as PRG members and keeping their communities informed about the PRG and
   its recommendations and mobilizing in support of PRG priorities. They
   may also help raise awareness of the priorities among researchers and
   clinicians.

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Highlights of PRG Recommendations

   Based on review and analysis of the recommendations of the first six
   PRGs, it is clear that many of the recommendations are, or could
   potentially be, addressed by programs that are already in place. In
   some cases modification or supplementation of an existing program is
   sufficient to get the research on track. The PRGs have also pointed to
   obvious gaps in NCI's disease-specific programs. For example:
     * The Breast Cancer PRG noted that our lack of understanding of the
       biology and developmental genetics of the normal breast was a
       significant barrier to progress against the disease. The NCI
       responded by joining several other NIH Institutes to release a
       Program Announcement (PA) seeking applications for research on
       normal breast development, as well as on changes in the breast
       throughout the development of early and advanced cancer. This PA
       has generated eight new research projects.
     * The Prostate Cancer PRG told us that the lack of validated animal
       models of prostate cancer was severely impeding progress. Since
       then, four separate research teams have begun work on models of
       prostate cancer through NCI's Mouse Models of Human Cancers
       Consortium.
     * The Leukemia, Lymphoma, and Myeloma PRG found that the
       infrastructure for developing new treatments of hematologic
       malignancies, particularly those exploiting molecular targets, is
       inadequate. They called for the development of consortia that would
       bring together experts across multiple disciplines and institutions
       to participate in the rapid discovery and development of cancer
       therapies. The ultimate goal of the program would be to shorten
       drug development time of five to ten years to about two years
       through an alliance among academia, industry, government, and
       patients. NCI is currently investigating ways to create and support
       these novel consortia.

   Furthermore, NCI is taking steps to address a number of broad
   scientific needs noted by several PRGs, such as the need for research
   training and the development of biomarkers of disease. For example:
     * NCI is currently expanding the Specialized Programs of Research
       Excellence (SPOREs) program to cover a number of the cancers
       addressed by the PRGs, including gynecologic cancers, brain tumors,
       leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma.
       Examples of advances from the SPORE Program
     * Several PRGs have recognized a need for the identification of
       biomarkers of disease. The Early Detection Research Network (EDRN)
       is dedicated to meeting this need. Projects specifically related to
       prostate, lung, and ovarian cancers are among those well under way,
       with others planned.
       Example of advances from the EDRN
     * Several PRGs discussed the importance of more accurate diagnosis
       and staging of cancer. Research conducted through the The
       Director's Challenge: Toward a Molecular Classification of Tumors
       will facilitate diagnosis at the molecular level, enabling greater
       precision in diagnosis and treatment. To date, the Director's
       Challenge has stimulated some 22 supported projects covering a
       diverse array of cancers including breast, prostate, lung, brain,
       ovary, colon, and leukemia and lymphoma.
       Example of advances from The Director's Challenge

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Assessing the Impact of the PRGs

   It is too early to fully assess this, but the early signs are
   encouraging. NCI has recently begun the critical task of assessing the
   impact of the PRG effort within the research community. As part of a
   system for evaluating the PRG process and outcomes, the Institute will
   analyze changes in grant applications, funding levels, and types of
   research funded that occur after the completion of a PRG.

   Starting with the Breast and Prostate PRGs, NCI will issue a status
   report two to three years after each PRG, and the groups will reconvene
   to:
     * Discuss the status of the recommendations and NCI's response
     * Consider further action

   This process will provide valuable information and insight about our
   directions in disease-specific planning.

   While the process may be refined over time, it is clear that the
   combined perspectives of PRG members, NCI staff, researchers, and
   cancer advocates will continue to influence the future direction of
   both broad-based and disease-specific research. By working together, we
   can ensure the most effective use of resources focused on both needs
   and opportunities for advances against all cancers.

                                                               Top of Page
   line

People's Stories

     * Pancreatic cancer
     * Multiple Myeloma
     * Brain tumors
     * Prostate cancer
     * Lung cancer
     * Breast cancer

   line

Pancreatic cancer continues to affect thousands.

   "My father died from pancreatic cancer. My brother and I wonder if
   we've inherited a high risk for this awful disease. Are scientists
   working on ways to prevent this cancer, and find out who's at risk?"

   Pancreatic cancer is a particularly devastating disease because it:
     * Spreads quickly
     * Seldom causes clear symptoms until it is advanced
     * Is almost universally fatal

   In 2001, an estimated 29,200 new cases will be diagnosed, with most
   patients living six months or less after diagnosis. Severe wasting and
   pain are tragic hallmarks of pancreatic cancer.

   Recognizing the urgent need for improved detection, treatment, and
   symptom management of this disease, NCI convened a Pancreatic Cancer
   PRG in 2000. The PRG stressed the need to better understand how the
   normal pancreas develops and functions -- an essential foundation for
   research on how pancreatic cancers arise and the environmental and
   other factors that may influence their growth and spread.

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Multiple myeloma incidence is on the rise.

   My doctor said I had multiple myeloma, and I said, "What's that?" When
   she said it was cancer, I was stunned. I had never even heard of this
   disease.

   Multiple myeloma is a cancer of blood plasma cells that grow out of
   control and form tumors, usually in the bone marrow. These tumors
   interfere with the blood-forming functions of the marrow, and the
   abnormal plasma cells cease producing infection-fighting antibodies.

   Multiple myeloma is one of the blood system cancers that are rising in
   incidence - new cases are increasing by nearly one percent per year. An
   estimated 14,400 new cases will be diagnosed in 2001. Deaths from this
   disease also are increasing, and the average patient survives only
   three years from diagnosis. Typically a disease of the elderly, myeloma
   is now striking people as young as their twenties and thirties.

   Multiple myeloma was one focus of NCI's Leukemia, Lymphoma, and Myeloma
   (LLM) PRG, whose report was released in May 2001. The group
   recommended:
     * A large case-control study to investigate the etiology of the three
       diseases
     * The development of an infrastructure and methodologies to better
       understand the interaction among immune function, infectious
       agents, environmental toxins, and lifestyle factors that can lead
       to the diseases' development

                                                               Top of Page
   line

Brain tumors pose unique challenges for researchers and patients.

   "We have to carefully weigh the potential benefit of every brain tumor
   surgery, chemotherapy, or radiation treatment against the risk of
   mental and functional damage. And with children, we worry about future
   learning or developmental problems."

   Many cancers have one or more subtypes, but brain and central nervous
   system (CNS) tumors are extraordinary in this regard -- more than 125
   types are known to exist, and their symptoms, aggressiveness,
   treatment, and outcome vary greatly. Because brain tumors affect the
   organ that is the essence of the "self," surgical approaches for
   treating most other cancers -- removing the tumor and a border of
   normal tissue if not the entire affected organ -- often cannot be used
   without damaging vital mental processes or brain functions.

   Moreover, many brain and CNS tumors are highly resistant to radiation
   and chemotherapy. The Brain Tumor PRG convened by NCI noted these
   special challenges in its report, published in 2000, and called for the
   development of novel treatment agents and approaches, including:
     * New chemotherapies
     * Treatments that target the immune system
     * Gene therapy
     * Antiangiogenesis agents
     * Viral agents

                                                               Top of Page
   line

New drugs provide hope for prostate cancer patients with bone metastases.

   When prostate cancer spreads, it often invades the bones, where it
   causes severe, debilitating pain. However, several drugs currently
   under study may combat bone metastases, slowing the spread of the
   cancer and improving the patient's quality of life.

   For example, the class of drugs known as bisphosphonates has already
   been established as effective against breast cancer and multiple
   myeloma, but these drugs have not been considered particularly
   effective against prostate cancer -- until now.
     * Clodronate, a bisphosphonate, has shown activity against prostate
       cancer metastasis, opening the door for further studies involving
       more potent bisphosphonates, or higher doses of the drug.
     * A second drug, Atrasentan, targets the protein endothelin-1, which
       promotes cell growth in bone and which is overactive in prostate
       cancer cells.
     * A combination of chemotherapy and a bone-targeted radiation drug,
       strontium-89 (Sr-89), may prolong the lives of men with prostate
       cancer that has spread to the bones. Sr-89 is a radioactive
       substance used to relieve bone pain caused by metastatic prostate
       cancer. When injected by vein, Sr-89 moves into bones and delivers
       radiation directly to cancer that has spread there.

   Metastasis was also a key topic of interest for the Prostate Cancer
   PRG.

                                                               Top of Page
   line

New imaging technology improves early detection for lung cancer.

   Spiral CT is a promising new technique that can be used to detect lung
   cancer at a very early stage, before it has had a chance to spread.
   This technique uses X-rays to scan the entire chest quickly, in 15 to
   20 seconds, during a single breath-hold. It is safe -- the amount of
   radiation during a spiral CT scan is about the same as that absorbed
   during a mammogram -- and simple.

   But will detecting these early tumors reduce the likelihood of dying
   from lung cancer? The NCI is working to find out. The year-long Lung
   Screening Study (LSS), part of the Institute's landmark Prostate, Lung,
   Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer screening trial, began in the fall of
   2000 to gauge the feasibility of a larger, more definitive study down
   the road.

   Through the LSS, we will learn, first and foremost, whether smokers
   will be willing to be randomized to receive something other than a
   spiral CT scan in a comparative study. The LSS will also provide
   important information about the medical follow-up of people who have
   the scans, as well as the costs involved.

   The Lung PRG, whose report was released in August 2001, discussed the
   topic of screening extensively, calling for the rapid evaluation of
   spiral CT as a means of detecting cancer early and ultimately reducing
   deaths from lung cancer.

                                                               Top of Page
   line

New initiatives aim to improve breast cancer treatment.

   The findings of clinical trials in breast cancer over the last ten
   years have provided physicians and their patients with a wealth of new
   information to guide their treatment choices - but at the same time,
   have also complicated their decision making. To help oncologists and
   patients choose between radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or hormone
   therapy to try to eliminate cancer cells left behind after surgery, NCI
   co-sponsored a consensus conference at the end of 2000 to synthesize
   the information from recent research and make recommendations for
   routine cancer care.

   The breast cancer experts participating in the conference provided
   advice on the factors that should guide the choice of adjuvant therapy,
   as these follow-up treatments are known, and made recommendations about
   which patients should consider hormonal, chemotherapy, or radiation
   therapy. In addition, consensus conference participants also considered
   the side effects and quality of life experienced by patients undergoing
   the various forms of adjuvant therapy and promising new directions for
   this research.

   In other research, NCI is sponsoring clinical trials to compare the
   effects of removing only one or a few lymph nodes during breast cancer
   surgery to the standard, more invasive practice of removing more lymph
   nodes.

                                                               Top of Page

Home | Site Map | FAQs | PDF | Privacy Policy | Accessibility | Contact Us
Last updated 11.15.01 (smz)

   W3C Validated

   Other U.S. Government Resources

   National Institutes of HeALT (NIH)
   Department of HeALT and Human Services
   FirstGov
       _______________________________________________________________
