http://library.niehs.nih.gov/database/database.htm

Library Home Page

New Books Etc
Electronic Jnls
Library/Lab Jnls
Photocopy Rqsts
Database Srch
Web Starting Pts
Book Catalog
Ref. Resources
NIEHS Pubs
Library Staff

NIEHS Junction
NIEHS Home

                    Database Searching

                 Available Databases

                           Search for Journal Articles and Books
                           Search for Scientific Data
                           Search for Biographical Information and Scientific Projects
                           Search for Health Information
                           Search for Patent Information
                           Search for Statistical Information
                           Search for General Information
                           Search Locally Mounted Databases

                 Quick Links:
PubMed | Web of Science | TOMES Plus | ChemIDplus | TOXNET | Current Contents
Connect | Current Protocols Online

Search for Journal Articles and Books

   Biological Abstracts
       Contains citations to articles from nearly 7,000 international
       journals in the biological and medical research fields. Covers
       1991-present. Access via the NIH library's OVID Web interface.
       Books in Print
       Available to NIEHS users and all of NIH courtesy of the NIH
       Library.
       CANCERLIT
       A bibliographic database produced by the National Cancer Institute
       containing nearly 1.4 million citations to journal articles, books
       and reports published from 1963 to the present.
       ClinMed NetPrints: Clinical Medicine & Health Research
       A place for authors to archive their completed studies--before,
       during, or after peer reviews by other agencies. Its scope is
       original research into clinical medicine and health. ["Warning:
       Articles posted on this site have not yet been accepted for
       publication by a peer-reviewed journal."] Sponsored by BMJ
       Publishing Group in collaboration with Stanford's HighWire
       Press^(TM).
       Current Contents Connect
       CC Connect offers immediate access to the weekly listings of
       contents of some 1,200 life sciences journals. The web edition
       permits searchers to search any or all weekly updates, browse
       tables of contents, view the full table of contents, and create
       search profiles.
       Journal Citation Reports
       Calculates the "Impact Factor" of scientific journals based on
       their frequency of citation. Produced by the Institute for
       Scientific Information.
       MEDLINE
       (National Library of Medicine) The major index to 3,000 biomedical
       journal titles, from 1966 to the present.
       NIEHS Bibliography
       List of publications by NIEHS authors, 1990 to the present.
       OCLC FirstSearch
       Provides access to approximately 50 database files covering a broad
       range of topics from business, economics and current events to the
       biological and physical sciences and the arts and humanities. Most
       of the databases include some full text.
       Porpoise
       The current awareness service for Web of Science (described in
       detail below). Porpoise allows searchers to store search profiles,
       which are automatically searched against weekly updates to Web of
       Science. Results of these stored searches are delivered by e-mail.
       PsycINFO
       Indexes over 1,300 professional and academic journals in psychology
       and related disciplines. Covers 1984-present. Access via the NIH
       library's OVID Web interface.
       PubMed
       A popular site for searching MEDLINE, the major index to biomedical
       journals from 1966 to the present.
       PubMed Central
       PubMed Central is the barrier-free NIH repository for peer-reviewed
       primary research reports in the life sciences, which began
       accepting journal articles in January 2000. PubMed Central will
       archive, organize and distribute peer-reviewed reports from
       journals, as well as reports that have been screened but not
       formally peer-reviewed.
       PubSCIENCE
       A database of peer-reviewed journal literature with a focus on the
       physical sciences and other disciplines of concern to the
       Department of Energy.
       TOXLINE
       Please note that TOXLINE is now a closed file that will not be
       updated further. Coverage is from 1965 through December 31, 2000.
       To search for current literature, use the following search strategy
       in PubMed:   search for a substance and apply the adverse effects,
       poisoning, and toxicity subheadings to it.
       Toxline still contains over 2.4 million records of journal
       articles, monographs, technical reports, theses, letters, and
       meeting abstracts, papers and reports on the toxicological,
       pharmacological, biochemical and physiological effects of drugs and
       other chemicals. Access TOXLINE through TOXNET.
       TOXNET Toxicology Literature Search
       Search the bibliographic files of the National Library of
       Medicine's TOXNET system of databases. TOXNET's bibliographic files
       include:

     * DART (Developmental and Reproductive Toxicology)
     * ETICBACK (DART backfile)
     * EMIC (Environmental Mutagenesis Information Center)
     * EMICBACK (EMIC backfile)
     * TOXLINE (Covers the literature from 1965 through December 31, 2000
       only.)

   UNCOVER
   17,000 journal titles of all kinds. NIEHS warning: If you order a
   reprint of an article, you will have to pay for it yourself.

   Web of Science
   The online equivalent of "Science Citation Index" offers access to over
   5,000 scientific journals from 1980 to present. It features
   cited-reference and literature searching, profile creation for weekly
   current awareness service, and direct links to selected full text
   through Science Direct.

   Porpoise, the current awareness feature developed by NIH Library,
   allows searchers to store search profiles, which are automatically
   searched against weekly updates to Web of Science. Results of these
   stored searches are delivered by e-mail.

                               To top of page

Search for Scientific Data

   Cancer Mondial
       IARC provides information on the occurrence of cancer worldwide.
       Carcinogenic Potency Database (CPDB)
       From the University of California at Berkeley, supported by NIEHS.
       Consolidates data on some 1300 chemicals resulting from chronic,
       long-term animal cancer tests.
       ChemFinder
       From Cambridge Soft, for retrieval of physical data about a
       compound; includes structures, synonyms, CAS Registry Numbers and
       links to other Web sites having toxicological and regulatory
       information on the compound.
       ChemIDplus
       Chemical dictionary file for over 339,000 compounds of biomedical
       and regulatory interest. Records include CAS Registry Numbers and
       other identifying numbers, molecular formulae, generic names,
       trivial names, other synonyms, MeSH headings, and file locators
       which lead users to other files on the National Library of
       Medicine's ELHILL® and TOXNET® systems. ChemID is no longer
       available through Internet Grateful Med. Access is now through
       NLM's Chemical Information site. Click on ChemIDPlus.
       Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) Registry Numbers
       Variety of on-line sources that can be used to find CAS Registry
       Numbers, as well as other chemical information.
       Chemical Scorecard
       From the Environmental Defense Fund, uses data from EPA's Toxics
       Release Inventory and published handbooks. Useful for information
       on local polluters, data about the chemicals (CAS numbers, toxicity
       data, exposure, etc.), chemicals that cause specific health
       effects, and regulated chemicals.
       The Cochrane Library
       Includes reviews of the effectiveness of drugs, information on the
       effects of health care, and data from controlled trials.
       Current Protocols Online (formerly available on CD-ROM through the
       Library Solar menu)
       NIEHS Library subscribes to nine sections:
       Cell Biology  |  Cytometry  |  Human
       Genetics  |  Immunology  |  Molecular Biology
       Neuroscience  |  Nucleic Acid Chemistry  |  Protein
       Science  |  Toxicology
       See Search Guide for tips on using Current Protocols Online.
       EMBL Sequence and Mutation Databanks
       A comprehensive list of searchable databanks in the areas of
       sequence variation, mutations, and metabolic pathways. Databanks
       include P53, Androgen Receptor, and Mutation Resources List
       (MutRes), a public collection of resources useful for sequence
       level mutation research.
       Envirofacts
       A database that integrates chemical discharge data from five EPA
       sources of facility (on site) based systems combined with mapping
       capabilities. Included are Superfund Data and Toxics Release
       Inventory Data among others. The Envirofacts Master Chemical
       Integrator is a query form that allows you to obtain CAS Registry
       Numbers or chemical names using name fragments.
       Eukaryotic Promoter Database
       EPD is an annotated collection of eukaryotic POL II promoters and
       tracks experimental data defining the transcription initiation
       sites of eukaryotic genes. The database is structured to facilitate
       the extraction of promoter subsets for comparative sequence
       analysis.
       Genetic and Physical Maps of the Mouse Genome
       Maintained by the Center for Genome Research at the Whitehead
       Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge, MA. Also, try Mouse
       Genome Informatics a mouse genome database; or the Mouse Atlas and
       Gene Expression Database Project.
       Genetic Sequences
       From the NIH; for information on the "Wisconsin" package, try the
       Genetics Computer Group (GCG).
       IARC Monographs Programme on the Evaluation of Carcinogenic Risks
       to Humans
       This is a searchable index to the database of over 800 agents
       reviewed by IARC; search results show a Summary of Data Reported
       and Evaluation for each agent with reference to the published
       monograph. The NIEHS library contains a complete set of IARC
       Monographs (call number: RC261.A1I5).
       IRIS
       U.S. EPA's Integrated Risk Information System, a database of human
       health effects that may result from exposure to various substances
       found in the environment.
       Mass Spectra Online
       A free searchable database containing more than 6,000 spectra of
       IR, MS, NMR (proton, carbon and other nuclei), UV/VIS and NIR
       spectra. From Galactic Industries Corporation.
       OMIM
       Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man.
       Organic Compounds Database
       Compiled by Harold M. Bell at Virginia Tech, this database allows
       you to search for information on organic compounds.
       RTK NET Environmental Databases
       The "Right to Know Network" is operated by two nonprofit
       organizations, OMB Watch and the Unison Institute. It provides
       access to government databases including the Toxic Release
       Inventory, TSCATS, and others relating to hazardous substances.
       SOLV-DB Solvents Database
       Search for solvents by name, CAS Registry Number, formula, or
       property range. Contains a wide range of properties including
       physical property data, health and safety information, and
       regulatory information.
       TIGR Database
       From the Institute of Genomic Research; a collection of curated
       databases containing DNA and protein sequences, gene expression,
       etc., for microbes, plants and humans.
       TOMES Plus
       From MICROMEDEX, Inc.; data on hazardous substances, toxicity,
       exposure and response, reproductive effects, and much more.
       Includes the following files:

     * HSDB (Hazardous Substance Data Bank)
     * RTECS (Registry of Toxic Effects of Chemical Substances)
     * IRIS (Integrated Risk Information System)
     * HAZARDTEXT (Hazard Management)
     * MEDITEXT (Medical Management)
     * INFOTEXT (General Information)
     * SARATEXT
     * REPROTEXT
     * REPROTOX
     * TERIS (Teratogen Information System)
     * Shepard's Catalog of Teratogenic Agents
     * NIOSH Pocket Guide
     * NAERG (North American Emergency Response Guidebook Documents)
     * New Jersey Hazardous Substance Fact Sheets
     * CHRIS (Chemical Hazard Response Information System)
     * OHM/TADS (Oil and Hazardous Materials/Technical Assistance Data
       System)

   Toxicology Profiles
   Full text of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
   (ATSDR) Toxicology Profiles for hazardous substances.

   TOXNET Toxicology Data Search
   Search the factual database files of the National Library of Medicine's
   TOXNET system of databases. TOXNET's factual database files include:

     * HSDB (Hazardous Substances Data Bank)
     * CCRIS (Chemical Carcinogenesis Research Information System)
     * GENE-TOX (Genetic Toxicology/Mutagenicity Data Bank)
     * IRIS (Integrated Risk Information System)

   TSCATS (Toxic Substances Control Act Submissions)
   "Index to unpublished nonconfidential studies submitted by industry to
   the EPA, covering chemical testing results and adverse effects of
   chemicals."

   WHALES (Web Homology ALErt Service)
   A weekly alert service about new gene sequences that appear in the
   major nucleotide and protein databases each week.

   Yeast Anticancer Drug Screen (NCI)
   From the National Cancer Institute, a database of compounds screened
   for evidence of the ability to inhibit the growth of selected yeast
   strains. Choose "Public Data" from the left column.

                               To top of page

Search for Biographical Information and Scientific Projects

   Community of Science
       CRISP

Search for Health Information

   Dr. Koop's Community
       Former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop and his staff at Empower
       Health Corp. provide much useful consumer information on health,
       diseases and drugs, as well as ratings of other health-related
       sites on the web.
       Harrison's Online
       Access Harrison's Online, the electronic version of Harrison's
       Principles of Internal Medicine, via the NIH Library. Choose
       "Subscriber Log-In" from the homepage.
       Health Answers
       Healthfinder
       Sponsored by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
       Mayo Health O@sis
       Sponsored by the Mayo Clinic, an excellent source for consumer
       information on diseases and treatment. Especially good in the areas
       of nutrition, cancer, heart problems, and women's health.
       MedHunt
       Sponsored by the Health on the Net Foundation, an international
       initiative located in Switzerland. MedHunt allows you to search the
       Web for evaluated medical sites and support.
       Medical World Search
       Searches the Web for sites that relate to your medical search
       topic; uses natural language or a medical thesaurus.
       MedicineNet
       For information on diseases, procedures and pharmaceuticals;
       material contributed by physicians.
       MEDLINEplus
       (National Library of Medicine) A comprehensive resource for
       consumer health information on diseases and conditions. Includes
       dictionaries, databases, clearinghouses, organizations, directories
       of doctors and hospitals, publications, and libraries.
       Search for Clinical Trials

     * CenterWatch lists more than 40,000 industry and
       government-sponsored clinical trials as well as new drug therapies
       approved by FDA. A resource for patients interested in
       participating in clinical trials and for research professionals.
     * ClinicalTrials.gov, developed by the National Library of Medicine
       to provide patients, family members and members of the public
       current information about clinical research studies.
     * PDQ, produced by the National Cancer Institute, includes summaries
       on cancer treatment, screening, prevention, supportive care, and
       clinical trials. Choose either Patients and the Public, Health
       Professionals, or Basic Researchers.

Search for Patent Information

   Delphion Intellectual Property Network
       This site, formed by Internet Capital Group and IBM, allows you to
       search millions of patents and other intellectual property across a
       variety of industries.
       U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
       Access to bibliographic and full-text patent databases from 1976 to
       the most recent issue date.

Search for Statistical Information

   U.S. Census Bureau
       For social, demographic, and economic information. Contains a
       "Subjects A to Z" index. The Statistical Abstract of the United
       States contains a collection of statistics on social and economic
       conditions in the United States. Selected international data are
       also included. Map Stats provides a tool for viewing statistical
       information by state and county.
       Bureau of Labor Statistics
       Timely information on labor and financial demographics. Contains
       the Current Population Survey and the Annual Demographic Survey
       March Supplement.
       FedStats Demographics
       FedStats organizes by subject the statistical reports of over 70
       federal agencies.
       United States Historical Census Data Browser
       Select data by category (e.g., race, fertility rate, country of
       origin) for each census year from 1790 to 1970 and view data by
       state or county level.
       Population Reference Bureau
       Provides timely and objective information on U.S. and international
       population trends and their implications. This site also contains
       demographics data by state.

Search for General Information

   Books in Print
       Available to NIEHS users and all of NIH courtesy of the NIH
       Library.
       Britannica Online
       InvisibleWeb.com
       A directory of searchable Web databases. Identifies and classifies
       substantial Web data collections that are missed or obscured by
       search engines and general Web directories.

Search Locally Mounted Databases

   SOLAR System has been deactivated.
       As of September 2001 the NIEHS Library Solar System has been
       replaced by the following Web applications:

     * NIEHS Library Book Catalog
     * Current Protocols Online (See the Search Guide for tips on using
       the Web version.)
     * Current Contents Connect

                               To top of page

   Please send comments and suggestions to:
   libraryweb@niehs.nih.gov

   Last revised: 1998 - [Credits]
