http://isc.gsfc.nasa.gov/AnnReport2000/ISCHighlights2000.pdf

   IInnffoorr m maattiioonn S Syysstteem mss C Ceenntteerr H
   Hiigghhlliigghhttss 22000000  A A Y Yeeaarr IInn R Reevviieew w Applied
   Engineering and Technology Directorate (AETD) Information Systems
   Center (ISC) Code 580 h ttp: //isc.gsfc .n asa.go v EXECUTIVE
   SUMMARY................................................................
   .......................................................................
   ............... 3 MISSION AND STRATEGY
   .......................................................................
   .......................................................................
   ........... 5 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
   .......................................................................
   .......................................................................
   6 SYSTEMS INTEGRATION AND ENGINEERING  CODE 581
   .......................................................................
   ........................... 7 FLIGHT SOFTWARE  CODE
   582....................................................................
   .......................................................................
   . 11 MISSION APPLICATIONS  CODE
   583....................................................................
   ................................................................ 16
   REAL-TIME SOFTWARE ENGINEERING  CODE 584
   .......................................................................
   .................................... 19 COMPUTING ENVIRONMENTS AND
   TECHNOLOGY - CODE
   585....................................................................
   .................... 25 SCIENCE DATA SYSTEMS - CODE 586
   .......................................................................
   ........................................................... 31 ADVANCED
   DATA MANAGEMENT AND ANALYSIS - CODE
   587....................................................................
   ...................... 40 ADVANCED ARCHITECTURES AND AUTOMATION - CODE
   588
   .......................................................................
   .................. 43 AWARDS AND
   RECOGNITION............................................................
   .......................................................................
   .............. 46 FUN RUN 2000
   .......................................................................
   .......................................................................
   ............................ 51 PUBLICATIONS
   .......................................................................
   .......................................................................
   ........................... 52 ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
   .......................................................................
   ................................................................. 55
   The Information Systems Center (ISC) had a very productive and
   challenging calendar year 2000. With over 300 information technology
   (IT) and engineering professionals, the ISC continued to provide
   crucial support to the Flight Projects Directorate as well as both the
   Earth and space science communities on a wide range of missions,
   initiatives, technologies and formulation activities. This year saw the
   launch of the Image/Magnetopause to Aurora Global Explorer (IMAGE) on
   March 25 and the Earth Observing-1 (EO-1)/SAC-C spacecraft on November
   21. The Imager for the IMAGE mission was the first in a series of
   medium class Explorers dedicated to imaging the Earth's magnetosphere,
   a region of space controlled by the Earth's magnetic field and
   containing extremely tenuous plasmas of both solar and terrestrial
   origin. The ISC provided significant support to the development of the
   ground systems and the science data processing system for the Low
   Energy Neutral Atom (LENA) instrument, as well as support to the
   Coordinated Data Analysis Web (CDAWeb) system that is part of the
   National Space Science Data Center (NSSDC). The IMAGE mission is one of
   the first missions to embrace the open data policy where data is
   available to the space science community and general public at the same
   time it is available to mission scientists. EO-1 was the first Earth
   looking mission in the New Millennium Program, designed to validate
   advanced land imaging instrument technologies for space-based Earth
   observation. EO-1 is flying in formation with Landsat-7 and collects
   over 50 calibration and land images weekly. The ISC provided major
   support to EO-1 in the area of ground system development, flight
   software technical (recovery) management, instrument integration and
   test, and data processing and development of the Enhanced Formation
   Flying software with Landsat-7. The ISC also provided leadership in the
   technical direction in recovering the EO-1 flight software. The ISC
   also provided major support to many other missions. The details in the
   following pages demonstrate the breadth and depth of the ISC team
   skills and the wide range of supported projects. In addition to
   missions that are in formulation and development, the ISC played a
   major role in the operations management and sustaining engineering and
   operation of GSFC's many on-orbit missions. GSFC operates 18 on-orbit
   missions. Particular note is made for the success of the Hubble Space
   Telescope (HST) and Terra operations over this past year, employing a
   new Vision 2000 control center system and 486 support system flight
   software for HST and the new mission and science ground systems for
   Terra. ISC personnel provide expertise in anomaly resolution, special
   maneuvers, and overall mission planning. Year 2000 saw the successful
   de-orbit of the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory (CGRO) on June 4 and
   maneuvers conducted for WIND orbit change and the continued successful
   operation of the SOHO spacecraft without gyros. For EO-1, there were
   several important on-orbit changes that greatly improved the science
   output and operational performance of the spacecraft: (1) development
   of operational procedures to improve the performance of the X-Band
   downlink and; (2) flight software patches to allow the Short Wave
   Infrared (SWIR) instrument to operate at a greater duty cycle (80
   percent vs. 50 percent) by bypassing the Hyperion cryocooler sensor
   failure. 3 Our skilled and dedicated efforts also focused on
   development of future missions. In particular, the year 2000 saw
   progress in the development of the ground system and flight software
   for Aqua, Aura, Gamma-ray Large Aperture Space Telescope (GLAST),
   Microwave Anisotropy Probe (MAP), National Polar Orbiting Environmental
   Satellite System (NPOESS), Net Primary Production (NPP), Space
   Technology-5 (ST-5), Ice, Clouds, and Land Elevation Satellite (ICESat)
   and Triana. Support to the science labs continued with the development
   of application specific software for the purpose of analysis and
   display of mission science data, for example, the development of the
   Space Weather View (SWV) for the Community Coordinated Modeling Center
   (CCMC). The ISC is committed to GSFC's goals of technology investment.
   This commitment was evidenced in the ISC's major strides in developing
   and winning technology proposals, holding workshops to encourage
   collaborative thinking and idea generation; and developing processes
   and procedures to better facilitate the approval of papers and
   proposals. Winning proposals were submitted to various NASA Research
   Announcement (NRA) and Independent Research and Development (IRAD)
   calls. The ISC also submitted over 30 papers to various technical and
   special interest conferences. The ISC held it's yearly Software
   Engineering Workshop (SEW) in November, which had an attendance of over
   230. The ISC also held its first Science Data Processing Workshop (over
   200 attendees) that invited both the space and Earth science
   communities to explore areas of common concern. This was considered a
   great success and planning has already started for a follow-on workshop
   in 2001. Even with many great success stories, the year 2000 was not
   without its challenges. Declining and erratic budgets caused
   disruptions in workflow and created an environment that continually had
   the management team replanning. The loss of key personnel created
   mission concerns and necessitated reassignments of personnel to cover
   critical areas, sometimes leaving other areas thinner than desired.
   Hiring continued to be a major challenge as the ISC Management Team
   worked diligently to attract recent graduates in the IT area, even
   developing a brochure that describes the many great reasons for working
   at GSFC. With our many successes and the challenges of our future
   missions, the ISC looks forward to 2001 and beyond to lead in providing
   our customers and partners in enabling information systems to explore
   and advance scientific knowledge. Just look at what we have
   accomplished! 4 To provide high value information systems products,
   services, and expertise, and to advance information technologies, which
   are aligned with customer needs. The ISC is an innovative center of
   expertise in the formulation and implementation of information systems
   in support of National Aeronautical and Space Administration (NASA)
   programs and projects, specifically the GSFC Earth Sciences, Space
   Sciences, and Technology focus area. The ISC collaborates with the
   science community, projects and other customers to meet their
   information systems and technology needs through the design,
   implementation, and integration of information systems and data system
   components. The ISC provides technology, capability and products in
   design, development, implementation, test, integration and operations.
   Additionally, the ISC provides leadership and vision in identifying and
   sponsoring new and emerging information systems technologies. The ISC
   has five primary strategy objectives: * Deliver high value products and
   services that satisfy customer needs * Advance leading edge information
   systems technology * Build a diverse, talented, innovative, energized,
   sought after workforce of employees and managers * Establish open,
   flexible, collaborative relationships with customers and partners *
   Build a cohesive, "no walls" organization with effective inter and
   intra branch communication and collaboration 5 NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND
   SPACE ADMINISTRATION GODDARD SPACE FLIGHT CENTER Applied Engineering
   and Technology Acting Chief, Arthur F. Obenschain INFORMATION Associate
   Chief, Joseph F. Hennessy SYSYEMS Associate Chief, Mary Ann Esfandiari
   CENTER Assistant for Technology, Peter Hughes 580 TECHNOLOGY 580
   Systems Flight Software Mission Real-Time Integration & Branch
   Applications Software Engineering Branch Engineering Branch Branch 581
   582 583 584 Head, Margaret Caulfield Head, Elaine Shell Head, Henry
   Murray Head, Barbara Pfarr Associate, Howard Kea Associate, Raymond
   Whitely Associate, Scott Green Associate, John Donohue Associate,
   Vacant Associate, Lisa Shears Associate, Jay Pittman Computing Science
   Data Advanced Data Advanced Environments & Systems Branch Management &
   Architectures Technology Analysis Branch & Automation Branch Branch 585
   586 587 588 Head:, Howard Eiserike Head, M.A. Esafandiari Acting Head,
   M.A. Esfandiari Head, Julie Breed 587 Associate, Steve Naus Associate,
   Mary Reph Associate, Jim Byrnes Associate, Barbie Medina 6 The Systems
   Integration and Engineering (SIE) Branch provides expert advice and
   technical consultation to Principle Investigators and Mission Study
   Managers on operational concepts, data systems architectures and life
   cycle costing. It provides end-to-end engineering of ISC mission
   systems development activities, including software development and
   flight operations. It provides expert consultation on software process
   improvements, technology assessments and product evaluation. Management
   Team: Branch Head Associate Branch Heads Margaret Caulfield Howard Kea
   Vacant (301) 286-1048 (301) 286-5252 SEW25 - 25th Anniversary of the
   attendees represented 7 foreign Software Engineering countries: Canada,
   Brazil, the United Workshop (SEW) Kingdom, Germany, Spain, Russia, and
   On November 29 and 30 2000, the Japan. Thirty-eight percent of all
   Software Engineering Laboratory attendees described themselves as
   (SEL)-a consortium composed of the government employees, 16 percent as
   ISC, Goddard, the University of academics, and 48 percent as members
   Maryland (UMD), and Computer of industry. The 38 percent from Sciences
   Corporation (CSC)- government consisted of 13 percent presented the
   25th Annual SEW. from the ISC, 3 percent from other parts Although
   registrations (263) and of GSFC, 3 percent from other NASA attendance
   (232) for the two-day Centers, and 19 percent from other conference
   were slightly lower than the government agencies. preceding year, the
   199 registrations for the tutorials-a new SEW feature- The first day of
   papers began with a made up for the shortfall many times session
   entitled, "The Software over. The three tutorials- Engineering
   Laboratory." SEL Director Requirements, Reading and Reliability Mike
   Stark presented "Supporting (53 registrants), Understanding Development
   of Satellite's Guidance Software for Project Management Navigation and
   Control Software: A (52 registrants), and Software Process Product Line
   Approach." CSC's Dave Improvement (94 registrants) were held Schultz
   presented the paper on November 28. "A Matrix Approach to Software
   Process Definition." Vic Basili, a SEL founding Two Europeans presented
   papers at member from the University of Maryland SEW25, one from the
   University of (UMD), presented "CeBaSE: The Rome and the other from
   Linkoeping Center for Empirically-Based Software University in Sweden.
   In addition 19 Engineering." 7 Laboratory (JPL) and Charles Vanek from
   NASA's Goddard. The final paper session was "Reusable Architecture."
   From left to right: Vic Basili (UMD SEL Founding Member), David Schulz
   (CSC), and Mike Stark (GSFC SEL Director) This session was followed by
   the Empirical Models session. After the NASA's Deputy Chief Engineer
   for Systems Engineering, Orlando Figueroa lunch break the audience was
   treated to three papers on Modeling Processes. One hundred of the 232
   attendees The first day concluded with a panel completed the SEW25
   questionnaire, a session on the Earth Observing System 43 percent
   sample. The SEW received (EOS) Data and Information System high marks
   for the quality of the (EOSDIS). Dawn Lowe of Goddard presentations and
   the environment. moderated and panelists Mike Moore Ninety-two percent
   stated that the (Goddard), Curt Shroeder (Goddard), general content was
   either very good and Steve Fox (Raytheon) discussed (the highest of the
   five ratings) or good. lessons learned from EOSDIS. This Eighty-eight
   percent rated the level of panel session was extremely well interest as
   either very good or good. received by the audience. Afterwards
   Sixty-five percent rated the level of attendees were invited to the
   Goddard academic rigor as either very good or Visitors Center for the
   SEW25 good. Visual presentation, verbal/audio reception. This usually
   tranquil museum presentation, logistical support, and came alive with
   the sounds of the physical comfort received respectively Goddard
   quartet "On the Rocks" and the 81 percent, 74 percent, 92 percent, and
   tastes of abundant delicious hors 73 percent in the very good or good
   d'oeuvres. categories. The second day of papers opened with When asked
   what features they would an excellent keynote speech, "The like to see
   at SEW26, respondents most Future of Software at NASA" given by
   frequently asked for handouts of slides Orlando Figueroa, the NASA
   Deputy (71 percent), which were a new SEW Chief Engineer for Systems
   item this year. This request was Engineering. This was followed by a
   followed by requests for keynote paper session entitled, "Experience."
   speakers (68 percent), tutorials The Quality Mission Software panel (66
   percent), traditional talks discussion, which kicked off the (64
   percent) and panels (56 percent). afternoon session, featured Rich
   Doyle and John Kelly, from the Jet Propulsion 8 The SEL has debated
   whether to move CGRO had a diverse scientific agenda, the SEW off site
   in order to provide which included studies of some of the better
   accommodations. Attendees universe's most energetic celestial were
   asked if they would attend SEW26 phenomena: solar flares, gamma-ray if
   it were held off site for this reason and bursts, pulsars, nova and
   supernova if the registration fee were raised to explosions, accreting
   black holes of $150 - $200. The response was nearly stellar mass,
   quasar emission, and evenly split. Forty-seven percent replied
   interactions of cosmic rays with the that they would attend SEW26 under
   interstellar medium. these circumstances. Fifty-three percent replied
   "no." CGRO carried a collection of four instruments that together could
   detect an unprecedented range of high-energy radiation called gamma
   rays. These instruments were the Burst and Transient Source Experiment
   (BATSE), the Oriented Scintillation Spectrometer Experiment (OSSE), the
   Imaging Compton Telescope (COMPTEL), and the Energetic Gamma Ray
   Experiment Telescope (EGRET). Covering an unprecedented six decades of
   the electromagnetic spectrum (from 30 keV From left to Right: Howard
   Kea (NASA's GSFC), Mary to 30 GeV), CGRO's four instruments Ann
   Esfandiari (NASA's GSFC), Trisha Jansma (JPL), and John Kelly (JPL)
   were ten times more sensitive than any predecessors flown on previous
   Highlights from the missions. Compton Gamma Ray Observatory (CGRO)
   Mission CGRO detected more than 400 gamma The CGRO was the second of
   NASA's ray sources, ten times more than what Great Observatories
   following the was previously known. It recorded more Hubble Space
   Telescope (HST). than 2,500 bursts-before CGRO, only Named in honor of
   Dr. Arthur Holly about 300 had been detected. CGRO Compton, CGRO made
   invaluable discovered that gamma-ray bursts come contributions to the
   field of high- uniformly from all directions in the sky. energy
   astrophysics during its 9-year This indicates that the bursts are not
   mission. confined to our galaxy, but are probably due to huge
   explosions in the distant At 17 tons, CGRO was the heaviest reaches of
   the universe. Using data astrophysical payload ever flown at the from
   CGRO, scientists were able to time of its launch on April 5, 1991,
   determine that half of the previously aboard the space shuttle
   Atlantis. After unidentified high-energy gamma ray exceeding its
   mission life by more than sources in our galaxy actually comprise 4
   years, CGRO was safely de-orbited a new class of mysterious objects.
   and reentered the Earth's atmosphere Other major accomplishments of
   CGRO on June 4, 2000. were: 9 CGRO detected five new black hole *
   emission from jets of particles systems in our galaxy with transient
   emanating from massive black holes. gamma-ray emission from in falling
   gas. * CGRO measured the distribution of * Using gamma radiation from
   26-Al positron antimatter in our galaxy. decay, CGRO created a map of
   the sites of nucleosynthesis in our galaxy over the past million years.
   * CGRO detected gamma-ray quasars with high-energy gamma-ray 10 The
   Flight Software (FSW) Branch provides end-to- end life cycle products
   associated with embedded software for spacecraft, scientific
   instruments, and flight components. Management Team: Branch Head
   Associate Branch Heads Elaine Shell Raymond Whitley Lisa Shears (301)
   286-2628 (301) 286-6404 (301) 286-3975 The year 2000 was a very good
   year for the Branch. FSW at GSFC is a growing the FSW Branch in terms
   of specialty. well-deserved staff recognitions, highly effective
   mission FSW support, and FSW Branch Mission Branch initiatives. We also
   demonstrated, via crisis recoveries on Development Highlights the Earth
   Observing (EO-1) and The astonishing performance of the InfraRed Array
   Camera (IRAC) FSW entirely new Hubble Space Telescope efforts, the
   essential end-to-end (HST) 486 FSW system was installed systems
   engineering and development on-orbit during Servicing Mission 3A in
   "non-negotiables" of FSW. These last December 1999. Full HST science
   efforts represent the predictable results operations were resumed
   immediately of inadequate engineering, testbeds, following orbital
   verification during staff, processes, controls and January. The goals,
   to exceed the organizational visibility during FSW previous on-orbit
   performance while developments. Ray Whitley was the taking advantage of
   the more powerful driving force during recovery of both flight computer
   to provide new EO-1 and IRAC, with Ken Rehm, Louise functionality, were
   completely achieved. Bashar and a dedicated set of excellent The team
   met each major milestone of FSW contractors supporting them. The the
   original 5-year development IRAC effort continues to be a challenge.
   schedule with absolutely no delays! The newly obsolete DF224 flight
   computer FSW is now fully recognized as a very from our FSW testbed was
   given to high risk, mission critical product. The Dave Simpson for 10
   years of ISC and AETD have both stated the supporting hundreds of
   updates and criticality of strong civil servant (and on-orbit events.
   contractor) FSW talent at GSFC. In response to this the FSW Branch was
   The Microwave Anisotropy Probe (MAP) authorized to hire a third
   Associate FSW Team completed acceptance Branch Head as well as a Senior
   FSW testing of the FSW on all six-flight Systems Engineer as technical
   staff to computers a full year prior to launch. The team, led by Jane
   Marquart with Maureen Bartholomew responsible for 11 the overall FSW
   Test Program, was risk area deserving of the highest levels
   acknowledged by the Red Team for the of project visibility. quality of
   their processes and people. During the last year the team developed The
   Ice, Clouds, and Land Elevation and tested a contingency build to
   Satellite (ICESat) Geoscience Laser accommodate alternate star
   trackers, Altimeter Systems (GLAS) Instrument tested the flight
   telemetry monitors and FSW represents our first experience command
   sequences, and supported with an Rapid Spacecraft Development numerous
   simulations and integration Office (RSDO) (i.e., "off the shelf" and
   test (I&T) activities. spacecraft) contractor relationship. The fixed
   instrument interfaces to the spacecraft made for some difficult
   interface negotiations, and the sharing of the Engineering Test Unit
   (ETU) with the I&T effort has delayed FSW testing beyond the desired
   schedule. However, the FSW led by Manuel Maldonado has been delivered
   to I&T with full functionality on both the Mongoose V and the Digital
   Signal Processing (DSP) FSW systems. While we were enthusiastic about
   Microwave Anisotropy Probe (MAP) supporting the NGST Nexus The Next
   Generation Space Telescope demonstration mission, its cancellation
   (NGST) FSW Team, led by Leslye during November will give us Boyce and
   Ken Rehm, made terrific considerably more flexibility to staff progress
   in defining the flight hardware continuing Branch commitments. and
   software architectures for the common Command and Data Handling FSW
   Development Systems (C&DH) elements for NGST. They have Management
   Oversight and worked with the Science Institute in FSW "Independent
   Verification Baltimore and two competing and Validation" (IV&V)
   contractors, both working mission designs, to establish mission
   operability Earth Observing System (EOS) Terra, strategies and FSW
   subsystem interface Aqua and Aura requirements. Supporting parallel The
   highly successful on-orbit designs of the instrument module performance
   of the Terra mission FSW, enabling us to accommodate each following the
   December 1999 launch, contractor's proposal has been quite a results
   from the outstanding FSW challenge. The down select of prime leadership
   of Lisa Shears during the contractors will occur during the fall of
   6-year Lockheed Martin development 2001. They have chosen Rational Rose
   effort. It also represents the quality of as the integrated development
   tool for the independent FSW Test Program FSW. The FSW on NGST is
   provided by Tom Clement's Verification appropriately recognized as a
   significant and Validation (V&V) Team. Tom's 12 team has taken over the
   on-orbit RFO package for Study #2, which maintenance of the Terra FSW
   with includes the Statement of Work (SOW), several important updates
   already to developing the Level 3 Requirements for their credit. the
   NPP Satellite software, and supporting the Level 3 Operations With the
   designation of the West Concept development. Referring to Virginia
   (WVA) IV&V organization as the work done on EOS Terra and the EOS sole
   NASA group doing "IV&V", we've Common Spacecraft, and taking into had
   to change the name of our EOS account lessons-learned has helped V&V
   Program to "Project V&V". Tom define Study #2 SOW activities and
   Clement's team is actively working the hone the requirements and
   Operations EOS Aqua Project V&V in preparation (Ops) Concept definition
   for NPP. for a summer 2001 launch, and the memorandum of understanding
   (MOU) HST Payload for the EOS Aura Project V&V is ready In 2001, The
   HST Flight Software Team for signature. Barbara Scott and will be
   preparing for the 2nd half of the Carver Audain, Aqua and Aura FSW 3rd
   Servicing Mission (i.e., SM3B), which Systems Managers, have led is
   scheduled for November 2001. resolutions of many interface, delivery,
   During the SM3B Servicing Mission, performance and contractor staffing
   several power system components issues with project level appreciation
   for including new solar arrays, Diode their significant contributions.
   Boxes, and Power Control Units will be installed. The FSW Team will
   provide National Polar Orbiting new Diode Box Software Charge
   Environmental Satellite System Control--to control the Solar Array
   Panel (NPOESS) Preparatory Project (NPP) connection AND disconnection
   to the The main activity for NPP for FY00 was batteries-which will
   enhance the HST the December release of the RSDO power subsystem
   operations. Request for Offer (RFO) Study #2. The main objectives of
   this study activity Flight Software Branch were to establish a refined
   base-line of NPP satellite requirements, and to Hands-on Technology
   Initiatives develop a preliminary design of the In order to take
   advantage of new integrated RSDO catalog Core Bus and software and
   standards technologies mission-unique modifications required with low
   risk to a mission, the FSW for the NPP satellite. Proposals were Branch
   prefers to evaluate options for due by 01/19/01. An evaluation team the
   future in the safety of ground (for which Lisa Shears was a member)
   prototypes. The activities are being reviewed the proposals selecting
   two to pursued by the FSW Branch using the three contractors to proceed
   with the Branch FSW Technologies Lab in development of NPP satellite
   Building 14, Room N287. The lab is set Preliminary Design Reviews
   (PDRs) in up with three flight environments the November 2001
   timeframe. including Mongoose-V, PowerPC750 and UT69R000
   processor-based data The main contributions have been systems. Todd
   Miller/582 leads these coordinating the development of the Branch
   activities. 13 Portable Operating System Interface evaluate Linux
   performance on a flight (POSIX) Flight Software Initiative platform in
   a heritage flight software The goal of this initiative is to
   investigate environment. the IEEE POSIX standards for future explorer
   class missions. POSIX is a set Flight Consultative Committee for of
   standards, which promotes portability Space Data Systems (CCSDS) File
   across the multiple operating systems. Delivery Protocol (CFDP)
   Initiative Using a POSIX compatible operating In collaboration with
   Code 588, the FSW system has many benefits including: Branch has
   defined a prototype of the portability across the full spectrum of CFDP
   to be implemented in the 582 hardware platforms, a standard
   technologies lab and will be tested using development and test
   platform, and an simulated link delays. The prototype enhanced set of
   operating system implementation will utilize the Rational services for
   supporting new embedded Rose toolset and will be a pathfinder for
   flight software technologies. the development of future flight software
   using Rose. The CFDP options are This investigation will focus on being
   defined to closely represent the determining if POSIX is viable for
   flight intended requirements of the NGST software. The activities
   include porting mission. an actual flight data system (MAP) to the
   POSIX Application Programming Flight Common Object Request Interface
   (API), characterizing the Broker Architecture (CORBA) performance
   impact of the port, and Initiative characterizing the practical
   portability of In collaboration with Code 588, we will the resulting
   system between several study the usefulness of CORBA in a POSIX
   operating systems. flight data system for implementing communications
   between both onboard Flight Mongoose-V Real-Time subsystems and the
   spacecraft and Executive for Multi-Processor ground controllers. CORBA
   provides a Systems (RTEMS) Initiative potential mechanism for
   implementing The Mongoose-V RTEMS initiative is a interfaces
   distributed across an onboard spin-off of the POSIX Flight Software
   Local Area Network (LAN) without Project. The near term goal is to
   requiring explicit communications develop a Board Support Package
   routing, buffering, and bandwidth which meets POSIX interfaces for the
   allocation. CORBA may also prove free Open Source Real-Time Operating
   suitable for implementing ground to System (RTOS), RTEMS and the core
   spacecraft subsystem command flight data system derived from the
   interfaces, by providing remote access Medium-Class Explorer (MIDEX)
   MAP to subsystem command functions and data system. The ultimate goal
   is to fly implicit command acknowledgement. RTEMS on Space Technology
   (ST-5). Internet Protocol (IP) in CCSDS Flight Linux Initiative
   Initiative With the many seeming advantages to The purpose of the IP in
   CCSDS using the open source Linux operating initiative is to develop
   software system for flight systems, we will supporting IP network
   connectivity in 14 conjunction with a traditional CCSDS flight data
   system. The IP tunnel can be used to demonstrate technologies relying
   on Internet protocols without giving up the tried and true practices of
   CCSDS flight data systems. "De-CCSDS-tification" Initiative Past flight
   data systems built using CCSDS standards have typically interwoven
   CCSDS concepts and data formats throughout the flight data system
   source code. The De-CCSDS-tification initiative defines a higher-level
   interface intended to hide the communication protocols being used by
   the data system, facilitating ports to newer protocols. Highlights of
   Branch-internal Initiatives and Plans for the Future Lou Hallock
   completed and presented the full 12 training sessions of "Attitude
   Control Subsystem Concepts without an Attitude." His series was
   followed by an introduction to "Developing ACS FSW with an Attitude",
   by Dave McComas. Lou and Dave hope to mature both topics and repeat the
   training in the future. 15 The Mission Applications (MA) Branch
   provides for the development of off-line systems and applications to
   support Earth and space science missions. It develops operational
   mission data systems that include functions such as science planning
   and scheduling aids, guidance navigation and control software, and
   Network Control Center (NCC) data systems. Management Team: Branch Head
   Associate Branch Head Henry Murray Scott Green (301) 286-6347 (301)
   286-5076 During 2000, the MA Branch continued software scripts were
   later replaced by its software engineering support with a Interactive
   Data Language (IDL) variety of development activities that software for
   operations, they were support Goddard's mission and instrumental in
   producing necessary test technology needs. files during prelaunch
   verification. Flight Projects The FDS for Earth Observing-1 (EO-1)
   After development and delivery of the was developed by the MA Branch
   and is Earth Observing System (EOS) Terra successfully supporting all
   early mission Flight Dynamics System (FDS) in activities following the
   November 2000 support of the mission's December 1999 launch. The FDS
   includes subsystems launch, the MA Branch continued and utilities for
   attitude and orbit sustaining engineering support until May
   determination and prediction, of 2000. This support involved
   calibration, attitude slews, momentum development and testing of
   software management, planning product updates to incorporate new
   generation and mission-unique science requirements and correctly
   identified utilities. anomalies, as well as participation on
   operational shifts during critical flight The MA Branch also continued
   in its dynamic events. prelaunch support of the Triana and EOS Aqua
   missions, scheduled for The MA Branch supported the Imager launch in
   2001 and 2002 respectively. for Magnetopause-to-Aurora Global For
   Triana, Branch personnel are Explorer (IMAGE) Project testing activity
   developing ground data processing through the development of Science
   software for the Solar Plasma and Data Pipeline functions, which ingest
   Magnetic Field Investigation (PlasMag) science telemetry data and
   convert it to instrument cluster, while Aqua support Universal Data
   Format (UDF), a generic involves the development of the structure
   optimized for use with time mission's FDS. ordered data sets. Although
   these Perl 16 Mission Services specifying and forecasting conditions in
   The Space Network (SN) Web Services the space environment. Presently,
   the Interface (SWSI) will provide a CCMC Web site provides information
   on Java-based cross-platform customer the activity's mission, goals,
   and status interface for performing Tracking and and features several
   space weather Data Relay Satellite (TDRS) scheduling models related to
   ionospheric, and real-time service monitoring and magnetospheric and
   solar heliospheric control. The development team, led by physics, as
   well as a movie of the latest MA Branch personnel, completed Sun-Earth
   connection events. design and early prototyping work, and held its
   Requirements/Design Review in Technology October. SWSI is currently
   scheduled In response to several Year 2000 to become operational in
   early 2002. technology proposal calls, the MA Branch developed a set of
   proposals The MA Branch also developed the that describe an innovative
   concept for Spacecraft Explorer (SE) managing constellation operations.
   applet/application for Goddard's Rapid Focusing on the theme of "An
   Spacecraft Development Office (RSDO). Architecture for Constellation
   This Java application provides a Management Automation", proposals
   platform-independent tool for searching were submitted to the NASA
   Research and comparing RSDO vendor Announcement (NRA) for the Advanced
   spacecraft data. Cross-Enterprise Technology Development Program
   (CETDP) and to Science Community the Space Operations Management The MA
   Branch provided software Office (SOMO) Technology Program. engineering
   support to the Space Physics Data Facility (SPDF) in the development of
   the SKTEditor tool. The SKTEditor is a Java application for creating
   and editing International Solar-Terrestrial Physics/ Interagency
   Consultative Group (ISTP/IACG) guideline compliant skeleton Common Data
   Format (CDF) files. This cross-platform utility will enable the science
   community to organize data in a standardized fashion for easier access
   and analysis. As part of the Community Coordinated Automated Mission
   Planning and Scheduling System Modeling Center (CCMC) Team, Branch
   Technology Infusion personnel developed the CCMC Web site as an
   interface to the space science The MA Branch was selected by both
   research community. The goal of the programs to receive funds totaling
   $2M CCMC is to both aid in and participate in dollars over the next 3
   years to develop the development of models for a constellation
   architecture capable of 17 handling a variety of spacecraft autonomy
   levels for distributed spacecraft missions. Guidance Navigation &
   Control In support of the Guidance, Navigation and Control Center's
   (GNCC's) Formation Flying Testbed (FFTB), Branch personnel assumed the
   leadership role in Simulation and Display Software. The FFTB is a
   modular, hybrid, dynamic simulation facility being developed as a
   platform for Trajectory Design Tool Output Display end-to-end guidance,
   navigation, control analysis and design of formation flying Software
   Engineering clusters and satellite constellations. As As a result of
   their recognized software the Simulation and Display Lead, MA
   engineering expertise, MA Branch Branch personnel demonstrated a
   personnel provided general software variety of FFTB capabilities,
   including process support to various GSFC and the performance of
   integrated analysis NASA-wide activities. The MA Branch with existing
   Commercial Off-The-Shelf was instrumental in the development of (COTS)
   tools and standalone functional the draft Goddard Procedure and
   components and simulators. Additional Guideline for Development and
   testbed verification has focused on Maintenance of Software Products
   multiple satellite real-time relative (GPG 8700.5), and provided
   internal navigation simulation, closed loop auditor support to GSFC
   organizations control analysis and dissemination of and the NASA
   Independent Verification real-time displays of simulated satellites and
   Validation (IV&V) Facility as part of through the Internet. NASA's ISO
   9000 activities. The MA Branch provides GSFC membership in The
   Trajectory Design Tool (TDT) was the NASA Software Working Group, and
   developed by the MA Branch to assist provides support to the ISC
   Software flight dynamics analysts in planning Engineering Laboratory
   (SEL). transfer trajectories, such as those from Earth orbit to a
   libration point. Developed in the Mission Applications Technology Lab
   (MATLAB), the tool eliminates the reliance on an iterative
   guess-and-analyze process, reducing trajectory design time in some
   cases from days to less than an hour. Flight dynamics analysts are
   using the TDT in support of the Triana mission. 18 The Real-Time
   Software Engineering (RTSE) Branch develops ground data systems for
   integration and test and on-orbit operations of Earth and space science
   missions. Management Team: Branch Head Associate Branch Heads Barbara
   Pfarr John Donohue Jay Pittman (301) 286-5076 (301) 286-6149 (757)
   824-1506 Wearable Voice-Activated cameras and head mounted displays.
   Computers (WEVAC) While writing funding proposals, we considered a wide
   range of NASA crosscutting space applications that would benefit from
   having instant Internet, network and computer access with complete
   mobility and hands-free operations. These applications include
   spacecraft fabrication, integration and testing, and astronaut on-orbit
   control and monitoring of experiments with ground based experimenters.
   584 Summer Student Danny Green Sensor Web Adaptive Resource with first
   WEVAC Prototype. Management (SWARM) Members of the RTSE Branch,
   including two college summer students and a Cooperative Education
   Program (CO-OP) student, developed a pair of wearable, wireless,
   voice-activated computer integrating off-the-shelf software and
   hardware components. Audiences were impressed by the C2 SWA SW SW SW R
   A A A M RM RM RM RM show-and-tell presentations provided by the
   students. The prototype demonstrated wireless communications and voice
   recognition technologies. We evaluated several speech recognition and
   collaboration software packages and researched the latest in
   lightweight and portable microphones, computer With Ohio University,
   Code 584 won a central processing units (CPUs), 2-year joint proposal
   to the Earth Science Advanced Information Systems 19 Technology
   Program. The goal is to Maintenance. evolve the Defense Advanced
   Research Projects Agency (DARPA)-funded AETD Career Mentoring
   DeSiDeRaTa adaptive resource Program approach to a sensor Web. The
   approach uses middleware to adapt Code 584 continued to develop and
   resource allocations and a framework to coordinate the AETD Minority
   Career reason with Quality of Service objectives Mentoring Program
   (MCMP) as it about real-time performance of completed a successful
   first year and distributed application systems. The began a second. The
   program has effectiveness of adaptive resource been well received by
   AETD management will be demonstrated in a management and the results of
   the Goddard-developed, ground-based program thus far have been very
   real-time system called Integrated Test positive. Branch members host
   and Operations System (ITOS). At the information sessions and training
   end of the year, we won funding for a classes for mentors and protégés
   and second effort with Ohio University to maintain the program's Web
   site with prototype real-time resource up-to-date information.
   management using real-time adaptive agents. Earth Science Data and
   Information Systems (ESDIS) Real-Time Software Engineering Code 584
   continues to support the Earth Lab Observing System (EOS) PM/Aqua, The
   Real-Time Software Engineering Chemistry Mission (CHEM)/Aura Lab
   continues to evolve. Current mission, and Ice, Clouds, and Land
   projects in the Lab include: Triana, Elevation Satellite (ICESat) in
   the roles Integration and Test (I&T), Rapid of Control Center
   management and Application Development (RAD) Lab, Earth Observing
   System Mission WEVAC, Mission Operations Center Operations System
   (EMOS) Integration (MOC) Technology Exploration and and Test Manager.
   Earth Orbiter-1 (EO-1) Code 584 supported the successful control center
   and mission Development Space Operations operations Directive Agreement
   (SODA) Task, preparations Simulators Center of Excellence, for the EO-1
   Operating Missions as Nodes on the launch in Internet (OMNI), Nexus
   Product November Evaluation Team, and 2000. WIND/POLAR/SOHO Software
   EO-1 Launch, Nov 2000 20 Advanced System for Space Operations
   Management Integration and Spacecraft Test Office (SOMO)/ Consolidated
   (ASIST) Development Team Space Operations Contract The ASIST Team
   supported a number (CSOC) of missions and instruments including Code
   584 continued to support Geoscience Laser Altimeter System SOMO/CSOC
   efforts, serving on the (GLAS), Tropical Rainfall Measuring Front End
   Processor (FEP) Mission (TRMM), EO-1, Microwave Consolidation Vertical
   Integration Team, Anisotropy Probe (MAP), Imager for and supporting
   Space Network Magnetopause-to-Aurora Global customers in network
   operations and Explorer (IMAGE), Space Technology-5 planning including
   Earth Radiation (ST-5), Nexus in I&T and preparing for Budget Satellite
   (ERBS), TRMM, Upper operations. The ASIST Consultative Atmosphere
   Research Satellite (UARS), Committee for Space Data Systems Land Remote
   Sensing Satellite (CCSDS) Ground Telecommanding (Landsat-7), Compton
   Gamma-Ray software continues to be used for I&T Observatory (CGRO) (and
   the CGRO and (pre-launch) Control Center deboost), pro Small Expendable
   operations of the EO-1, IMAGE, and Deployer System (SEDS), and Hubble
   MAP spacecraft, as well as several Space Telescope (HST). Code 584 also
   instruments in development. Code 584 continued to manage two CSOC SODA
   continued to support other on-going Tasks, the Simulators task and the
   MOC missions with system administration Technology Development Task.
   The support, supported ground system Simulators task delivered their
   formulation for the ST-5 Mission (which Scaleable Integrated Modular
   has chosen ASIST for I&T and mission Simulation Suite (SIMSS) to Aqua
   and operations), and set up evaluation EO-1 this year. The team also
   demos for Nexus. They continued to evaluated and developed a simulator
   support the international CCSDS prototype using the Department of
   standards at meetings and conferences. Defense (DOD)/Institute for
   Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) standard "High Level
   Architecture" (HLA) that allows for distributed simulations across a
   wide area network. The MOC Technology Development and Exploration Task
   implemented a task-developed product, named Jswitch into X-Ray Timinig
   Explorer (XTE) operations for secure, remote access to engineering data
   and events in near real-time. The task also began investigating
   technologies, such as Image satellite, Pre-launch Biometric
   authentication that can be applied to secure mission operations. 21 HST
   began development for the next The HST continued to operate nominally
   generation avionics system to support after the re-servicing mission
   3A, and upcoming Hitchhiker programs and plans continued for servicing
   mission missions. The team is also supporting 3B. Code 584 supported
   the project in a some new Hitchhiker-related projects variety of roles
   including lead Control such as Expedited Processing of Center Systems
   (CCS) Systems Experiments for Space Station Engineer, CCS Developers,
   Operations (EXPRESS) Palet Adapter Module Configuration, International
   Standards (EPAM). EPAM is a new flight avionics Organization (ISO)
   Compliance design intended to provide Hitchhiker- Manager, and
   Instrument Lab like service to small payloads flying on Programmer. the
   International Space Station (ISS). The team is also preparing for the
   Nexus/ Next Generation Space STS-105 launch in June 2001. This
   Telescope (NGST) launch will be supported by the new Code 584 supported
   the Nexus and Hitchhiker design. The team is also NGST in the
   compilation of cost supporting the Triana mission as part of estimates
   for the ground system and the Triana Airborne Support Electronics.
   simulation systems, and a detailed The next Hitchhiker mission is
   evaluation of available existing scheduled for March 2001. Acceptance
   Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) or testing for the new design began in
   Government Off-The-Shelf (GOTS) September. ground systems. Science
   Visualization Lab Code 584 continued to support the Science
   Visualization Lab, which included the development of animations of
   Greenland ice density. These animations were used in a July 20th Press
   Release, the Aug. 7 issue of Space Ops, and appeared on CNN and MSNBC.
   Web pages were developed showing images of the Mozambique floods (shown
   on CBS and ABC evening 584 supporting ACE thermal vacuum testing,
   November 2000 news), Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter (MOLA), Significant
   Artic Ozone Loss, Triana and TRMM/Geostationary Operational The
   Integrated Test and Operations Environmental Satellite (GOES) Data,
   System (ITOS) Group continued to which is used to improve hurricane
   support Triana I&T including supplying predictions. the Data Trending
   and Analysis System (DTAS) for Triana. Hitchhiker The Hitchhiker
   Development Group completed the design of the next generation
   Hitchhiker Control Unit and 22 Ultra Long Duration Balloon Autonomous
   File Server (SAFS), an (ULDB) automated data delivery and archive The
   year 2000 was characterized by system that allows confirmed delivery of
   much success and visibility for 584 at spacecraft science data products
   Wallops. Major deliveries for the year directly to the science user's
   desktop or included flight software and ground processing system.
   control center systems for NASA's ULDB Project. Slated to fly a space
   Advanced Earth Observing science mission in 2001, the ULDB is a
   Satellite 2 (ADEOS2) next generation balloon capable of Support for
   on-orbit science missions staying aloft for up to 100 days. The was not
   confined strictly to NASA flight software was developed in-house
   missions, however. ADEOS2, a joint and is designed to be highly
   reusable NASA/National Space Development from mission to mission. The
   new Agency of Japan (NASDA)/National control center systems are based
   on Oceanic and Atmospheric existing GOTS software that were
   Administration (NOAA) mission, is also extended and tailored for
   balloon- counting on 584 for ground specific use. implementation. Code
   584 personnel traveled to Japan to work with NASDA scientists and
   engineers to manage implementation and testing of flight to ground
   interfaces and operations concepts for this mission. 584 supporting
   ULDB integration NASA Tracking Station Support Code 584 also provided
   support for standard on-orbit missions. The final transition of
   automated tracking sites at ADEOS-2 Mission Operations Meeting #7, held
   in Alaska Wallops, Fairbanks, AK and Svalbard, in June 2000 Norway was
   completed this year. These sites support the Space Advanced Range
   Technology Operations Control Board (SOCB) Initiative (ARTI) Mission
   set and the completion of their Technology development also played a
   automation software marks a milestone large role in the activities of
   Code 584. in their ability to support more missions One major
   technology thrust is in the at a lower cost to NASA and its area of
   ARTI. ARTI is an effort to focus customers. As a part of the
   automation, on technology challenges that will 584 completed work on
   the Standard benefit spaceport, launch range, and range safety
   functions performed by 23 NASA at numerous sites and Centers. Karen
   Keadle-Calvert and Sharon One effort in particular showed much Orsborne
   won funding for their promise  the Flight Modem. Initiated Commercial
   Technology Development as a GSFC Internal Research and proposal, "A
   Multi-function PCI Digital Development (IRAD) activity, the Flight Data
   Board for Spacecraft Modem will allow two-way Internet Communications."
   Protocol (IP) based data transfer between an in-flight launch vehicle
   and John Donohue's proposal titled, " Risk a launch control center
   using no ground Analysis for Operating Spacecraft as infrastructure.
   Initial tests of the Internet Nodes" was funded by SOMO technologies
   involved a prototype for FY01. system developed by 584 at the Wallops
   campus, which were flown on aircraft Tim Ray was awarded funds from and
   balloons over the Western United SOMO after submitting his winning
   States and off the coast of Florida. The proposal on CCSDS File
   Delivery success of these early tests led to a Protocol (CFDP), which
   is a file transfer proposed test aboard a Sounding protocol that can
   run directly over Rocket to be conducted in January of CCSDS
   Telecommand links. 2001. Other ARTI-related efforts have focused on
   Launch Safety Knowledge Barb Pfarr (GSFC Co-Principal Engineering
   efforts, Autonomous Flight Investigator (Co-PI)), Dr. Lonnie Welch
   Termination Systems, and air and sea (Ohio University Principal
   Investigator surveillance systems. (PI)) and Dr. Brett Tjaden (Ohio
   University Co-PI) authored a winning proposal titled, "Adaptive
   Resource Management for Distributed Real-Time Systems." Code 584 is
   teaming with Ohio University in accomplishing the work defined in the
   proposal. Ryan Detter (GSFC Cooperative Education Program (Co-Op))
   supports this work at GSFC using ITOS as the prototype system. Ryan is
   supporting this work, which involves integrating the ITOS system with
   Ohio's algorithms for real-time resource management of Flight Modem
   Front Panel distributed systems without timing constraints. Proposals
   Steve Bailey recently submitted a winning proposal to the GSFC IRAD
   proposal call titled, "Flight Hardware Methods for Ocean Color
   Inversion." 24 The Computing Environments and Technology (CET) Branch
   provides infrastructure support to scientific, project, administrative
   and outreach activities across the GSFC. Management Team: Branch Head
   Associate Branch Head Howard Eiserike Steve Naus (301) 286-7784 (301)
   286-5640 Overall, Code 585 had a productive year documenting NASA's
   "Best Practices" in in 2000. Our staff was engaged in KM and
   researching industry and numerous leadership activities and external to
   NASA best practices in KM. technical projects that support the ISC,
   During the CY99 NASA CIO GSFC and NASA. The majority of these
   Agency-wide IT Pilot Proposal call, activities focused on our primary
   Steve Naus' proposal "Expert Directory strengths, Information and
   Knowledge Service" was accepted and funded. Management, Information
   Technology This proposal was one component in the (IT) Security, and
   Networking and Federated KM Architecture Prototype Communications.
   Representative of our Project with the Jet Propulsion involvement in
   Information and Laboratory (JPL) and Langley Research Knowledge
   Management was our work Center (LaRC). Code 585 collaborated on the
   Agency Knowledge Management with the Goddard Earth Sciences and Team,
   the completion of a multi-center Technology (GEST) Center/Code 930,
   NASA Chief Information Officer (CIO) Florida International University
   (FIU) pilot proposal titled "Expert Directory and University of
   Maryland Baltimore Service", Resume Management and the County (UMBC) to
   investigate advanced Brio Pilot supporting the Integrated Web-based
   technologies. The major Financial Management Program (IFMP),
   accomplishment during CY00 was that and our work on the Agency
   standards, processes and tools for the Accessibility Team. For IT
   Security a capture, retention and dissemination of NASA CIO pilot
   proposal was awarded information that establishes the to facilitate
   "remote control of foundation of an expertise/project-based
   vulnerability scanning devices." For directory service were piloted.
   Networking and Communications, our team supported the Global Legal Code
   585 investigated various Information Network (GLIN) demo and commercial
   offerings in knowledge the Internet2 initiative. portal technology,
   selecting Autonomy's knowledge server and update to provide Knowledge
   Management (KM) Web mining capabilities and KM Steve Naus of Code 585
   represented solutions. The information captured GSFC on the Agency-wide
   KM Team through Autonomy will become the developing a draft strategic
   plan and foundation of knowledge that could be road map for KM
   initiatives within NASA. used in next generation Intranet for the
   Accomplishments during CY00 included Center. 25 Code 585 performed an
   in-depth During CY01, the Resume Management internal study of the ISC's
   current system will be implemented across the knowledge environment to
   aid in Agency. developing a knowledge environment roadmap. Knowledge
   gained from this For accessing the Agency's FACS data study was
   critical in establishing through a Brio environment, requirements for
   selecting the accomplishments include: knowledge portal solution
   identified * establishing the Agency's above. requirements, system
   architecture, and data warehouse design for this IFMP capability Code
   585 has provided system * conducting a design review with engineering
   support to the IFMP Office/ Agency participation Code 400.2 at GSFC for
   the past * installing the Prototype S/W at several years. During CY00
   there was a Marshall Space Flight Center major change in focus in the
   IFM (MSFC) (the IFM Integration Center) Program directed by NASA *
   providing training for individuals to Headquarters and the 585 support
   be performing usability testing provided was reduced to meet the *
   conducting usability testing redefined need. The two technical *
   Presenting status, plans, and a areas that Code 585 became
   demonstration to the Agency responsible for were establishing an
   financial community as a prerequisite Agency-wide Resume Management to
   rollout system led by Tom Weber and accessing the Agency's Financial
   and During CY01, the Brio environment for Contractual System (FACS)
   data accessing Agency FACS data will be through a Brio environment led
   by rolled out to each NASA Center for use Debbie Sharpe, as a
   pathfinder activity and evaluation and all end users will be for the
   IFM reporting environment. trained. For the Resume Management activity,
   accomplishments include: Accessibility * establishing the Agency's In
   June 2000, Lee Holcomb, NASA CIO, requirements for this capability
   nominated Tom Weber of Code 585 to represent NASA as the Section 508 IT
   * developing the statement of work (SOW), releasing a Request for
   coordinator on the government-wide Proposal (RFP), evaluating Federal
   IT Accessibility Initiative. Tom proposals, and selecting a reports
   status and progress directly to Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) the
   NASA CIO while he chairs a team of product (Resumix) representatives
   from across the NASA Centers. Section 508 is a part of the *
   establishing the Agency's Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which
   requirements and schedule for requires that electronic and information
   implementation as well as technology developed, procured, developing
   the SOW for the maintained or used by the Federal implementation RFP
   government be accessible to people with disabilities. 26 There were
   three major control the scanning process. The accomplishments during
   CY00. The accomplishments of this proposal will first accomplishment
   was to ensure that enable both the manual and automated the top 20 NASA
   Web-sites were made control of in situ subnet/supernet accessible. The
   second vulnerability scanning devices running a accomplishment was to
   ensure that the specific COTS software scanning Federal IT
   Accessibility Initiative product. proposed standard was reviewed and
   commented on by NASA. The third The major accomplishment during CY00
   accomplishment was to ensure that a was the development of more robust
   set of Web development guidelines was reporting to enhance the
   information produced with the goal of assisting value to management.
   Currently, the Webmasters in making all NASA COTS tool has limited
   high-level Web sites accessible to persons with reporting capability
   and this disabilities. enhancement provides management a clearer snap
   shot of network regions of In CY01 it is anticipated there would be, IT
   security concern. under Tom's direction, a significant effort to
   educate the GSFC Webmasters During CY01, the full remote control of
   community and other IT areas about vulnerability scanning devices pilot
   will Section 508 and their responsibilities to be implemented and
   checked out at ensure compliance. GSFC. IT Security GLIN Demo During
   the CY00 NASA CIO Code 585 provided network-engineering Agency-wide IT
   Pilot Proposal call, Dick expertise in support of the satellite
   Schneider's proposal "Remote Control communications demonstration for
   GLIN of Vulnerability Scanning Devices Pilot" held on September 6, 2000
   at GSFC. was accepted and funded. Because This international program
   successfully there is now an Agency requirement that utilized
   PanAmSat's Galaxy satellite, each NASA Center perform vulnerability two
   terminals and modulation and scans each quarter on all computers,
   coding equipment as well as terrestrial this proposal provides an
   opportunity to links and the computer hardware and investigate an
   important aspect of IT software. The audience, which included security
   at GSFC that could be applied representatives from NASA, the to other
   NASA Centers. Currently it is National Institute of Health's (NIH's)
   very time and labor consuming to "scan" National Library of Medicine
   (NLM), the an entire Center's computers. It has Library of Congress,
   and twelve foreign been recognized that there must be countries were
   impressed with the better, more automated means of potential of
   satellite communications to vulnerability scanning and associated serve
   effectively in a global digital library data collection and
   vulnerability report network. The demonstration consisted
   dissemination. The proposed solution to of remotely (over the satellite
   link) this problem is the implementation of a accessing an Oracle
   database (GLIN) remote control scanning system that and video
   conferencing using would provide a capability to centrally Netmeeting.
   The two members of 27 Code 585 who played a significant role that this
   technology promises for GLIN in the activity were Kevin Kranacs and
   members." Below is a diagram of the Freemon Johnson. Kevin was the GLIN
   architecture. overall technical configuration and operations leader for
   the entire Internet2 Initiative: demonstration. Kevin oversaw the Code
   585 provided network engineering application demo's planning, arranged
   to the Earth Science Data and nominal satellite time schedules with
   Information System (ESDIS) Project at PanAmSat prior to and during the
   demo, GSFC. A significant focus of this and enabled the first
   end-to-end setup support during CY00 was to more cost and check out of
   all the GSFC-based effectively transfer data at higher rates equipment.
   Freemon performed to the NASA funded scientists and technical
   configuration and setup of the researchers. Over 200 Earth Observing
   Comsat Internet Protocol (IP) router, System (EOS) researchers are at
   assisted in conducting end-to-end check universities that are members
   of the out of the ground system configuration, University Corporation
   for Advance and performed pre-demo end-to-end Internet Development
   (UCAID), and are performance testing of the applications. connected to
   the Abilene Network. NASA and UCAID researchers are also Dr. Rubens
   Medina, Law Librarian and participating in developing the network
   Director General of GLIN, wrote a letter technologies of the future.
   Recognizing to GSFC acknowledging all the the commonality of goals
   between the arrangements that were made for the entities, Jeff Smith of
   Code 585 demonstration. He cited that "the facilitated the membership
   of the Earth demonstrations given by you and Observing System Data and
   Information members of your staff utilizing the live System (EOSDIS) in
   the UCAID satellite connections were extraordinary, organization to
   collaborate on the and vividly conveyed the advantages development of
   these network LOC - NASA GSFC GLIN Demo Setup Pan Am Sat
