http://allen.senate.gov/PressOffice/Crossfire09172001.htm


                             [USEMAP:head2.jpg]


   CNN CROSSFIRE
   Transcript for September 17, 2001
   America's New War: A Town Meeting
   Aired September 17, 2001 - 19:15 ET

    THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND
                               MAY BE UPDATED.

        BILL PRESS, CO-HOST: Good evening and welcome to this special
   "CROSSFIRE" town meeting, live from the campus of the George Washington
                  University in downtown, Washington, D.C.

    Tonight: Americans all, we suffer and struggle together. Never in our
   history have we experienced anything so tragic or so troubling. And in
   these terrible days following last week's attacks on the United States,
     every American has something to say and every American has lots of
                                 questions.

    So all this week we're going to be here at G.W. with a live audience
   and a panel of experts to discuss and debate how America should respond
     to terrorism. How could it happen here? Are we now safe? Are we, in
      fact, at war? If so, against whom, and what does it mean for us?

    TUCKER CARLSON, CO-HOST: And here to help us understand the last week
      and the days ahead, James Woolsey, who's the former CIA director,
      Senator George Allen of Virginia, a member of the Senate foreign
     relations committee, James Lee Witt, former director of the Federal
    Emergency Management Agency, and Robin Wright, reporter for the "Los
    Angeles Times," who's also written a number of books on terrorism in
                              the Middle East.

    PRESS: And of course, we want to welcome the great students from the
                 great campus of G.W. University. Thank you.

                                 (APPLAUSE)

     PRESS: Senator Allen, I want to ask you the question, I think, that
    every American wants to know. We are the greatest nation on earth, we
     are the most powerful nation on earth. We have the biggest military
    with the biggest weapons, and yet 19 men were able to penetrate this
        country, take over four airplanes, destroy some of our major
    institutions, basically killed 5,000 Americans and bring this country
                                 to a halt.

     How could that ever happen with our not knowing anything about it?

       SEN. GEORGE ALLEN (R), VIRGINIA: Well, it did. I think that our
    intelligence agencies international had some ideas, that had threats,
   knew about it. I think some of these ideas and threats were known. They
       weren't acted on. I don't think anybody even imagined, though,
   something like this happening. There have been threats over many, many
     years. Clearly, we've been violated. We're not impervious to these
   attacks. We thought suicide bombings were something that happened maybe
    in Israel, or happened in Europe. But it's happened here, and no one
     had ever contemplated such a vicious, callous, heartless attack an
                          innocent, unarmed people.

   And so we have learned from it. I don't blame our intelligence agencies
   or our law enforcement agencies. They all do the best job they can. We
     need to learn from it, learn how we can prevent this from occurring
   again. Insofar as airlines are concerned, we need to make sure that no
    airplane ever gets taken over again and used as a missile. Our pilots
    need to be made more safe in the cockpit. It needs to be like a vault
                            -- no one can get in.

   We ought to use technology, where there's a button, where if there's an
     attack or something amiss, that gives a signal to FAA and they just
   automatically fly that plane and land it. And there are things we need
        to learn from it, but I think there is a great unity, a great
    coalescing in a resolve to make this country safer, but also stick to
          our principles and our liberties, and also seek justice.

     And the justice needs to be sure, and it needs to be very swift and
                                   severe.

        CARLSON: Now, Mr. Woolsey, if, as the senator, we're going to
    (UNINTELLIGIBLE), first we have to know how it happened. Now, two of
       the suspected terrorists, the hijackers apparently on a list of
    suspected terrorists, and yet they moved freely around the country on
     valid visas, apparently. They bought tickets in their own names for
                               these flights.

        Specifically, where the did the chain of intelligence and law
                           enforcement break here?

     JAMES WOOLSEY, FORMER CIA DIRECTOR: It's hard to say. On different
    things, it happened in different ways. Some of these people got into
   the country on visas. The State Department people who process visas are
   few in number and overworked. People do get in. The blind sheik, Sheik
   Omar. got into the United States on a visa when he shouldn't have some
    years ago, who was involved in the bombings in New York in the early
                                    '90s.

   The CIA picked up something about two of these men meeting with someone
   related to Bin Laden, and that information went through the system, but
   as winding its way through the law enforcement system, it never got to
    the right people at the right time. The CIA was operating under some
   constraints overseas that I think were unwisely imposed in 1995 by the
      Clinton administration, and I hope some of those are going to get
                                   fixed.

    The FBI's guidelines are confusing and vague. We said last year on a
     terrorism commission I was on, those need to have been scrubbed and
      changed, and they were not. Airport security was lax. The fighter
   aircraft there were to defend the country itself -- there were only 20
     of them on alert in the whole country, and none was really close to
                           Washington or New York.

    There are a lot of things that different parts of the government were
       not looking at and not doing, that if anyone had foreseen this,
                certainly, would have been done differently.

   PRESS: Robin Wright, you've written one of the best books on terrorism,
    "Sacred Rage." You were in Afghanistan last year. you know, sort of,
    inside the terrorist mind. These 19 men were not alone. There must be
    others in this country. They're not finished with their war with the
                             United States yet.

              What could we expect next? Where do they go next?

   ROBIN WRIGHT, "LOS ANGELES TIMES": Well, one of the things that's most
   difficult in this war of terrorism that we've launched is the fact that
     they're not just in the United States, but they're in 35 countries,
    including several that are allies of the United States. So it's a war
     that, unlike anything we've waged in the past, really has no front
    line. It's a war fighting in the shadows, wondering about the people
                                 next to us.

    Yes, they probably do have operatives and sympathizers still in this
      country. They the product of two different phenomena. One is the
    emergence of this hatred of the United States for its involvement and
      its policies in the Middle East. But on a broader level, they've
   emerged because most of the Muslim world, the largest bloc being in the
     Arab world, is also the last bloc of countries to hold out against
                                 democracy.

   And in the frustration over the last 25 years, as the rest of the world
    has moved toward democracy and freedoms, these countries haven't. And
    as result, people have turned -- because all opposition is exiled or
   imprison or banned -- to Islam, because it's the only alternative. And
   so you have the emergence of a political movement that then moves into
                            a political extreme.

      PRESS: That's the background, I agree with you. But what could we
   expect next, as Americans? What should we be on our guard against? More
   planes used as suicide bombings, or -- where do you think they go next
                               in this world?

     WRIGHT: Having covered terrorism for 20 years, in Beirut and other
    places, it's quite clear that they have at every juncture outsmarted
   us. And if you're trying to figure out what are the options out there,
    there are obviously concerns that everyone has expressed for the last
     decade the U.S. intelligence community, and chemical and biological
                        weapons -- those are things.

     But I would be very surprised to see the use of aviation again. The
    lockdown we will have on pilots, airports will make it very difficult
             for them to act, and they'll look for alternatives.

      CARLSON: Let's suppose that they did act. Let's, for the sake of
       argument, let's say that the terrorists did somehow introduce a
    biological or chemical agent into a city, Anthrax, something horrible
    like that. You were head of FEMA for many years, obviously, an agency
    that responds to disasters like that. How ready is the United States
                     for biological or chemical attack?

   JAMES LEE WITT, FORMER FEMA DIRECTOR: Well, Tucker, I think they're as
   ready as they can be, as far as planning and implementing the plan. The
     problem that we face here in the United States is that you have the
    first responders, the firefighters, the police officers at the local
        level, who are the front line defense in an event like this.

     And Congress last year gave FEMA $100 million to provide grants to
   local fire departments to bring them up to a higher level. But you know
               what the request was, the need was? $3 billion.

   So there's got to be some funding and there's got to be some equipping
            of these first responders that are on the front line.

    CARLSON: And yet, you say that if there were a biological or chemical
   attack tomorrow, you think the United States is fairly well prepared to
                                deal with it?

   WITT: We have the plan and we have exercised the plan, but we're still
               not equipped to respond to that type of event.

   PRESS: I want to remind our panelist to signal to us any time you want
   to add to something that any one of the other panelists has to say. But
    I want to come to you, Jim Woolsey -- are we at war? Is this a war we
           have launched, and if so, yes or no, and against whom?

      WOOLSEY: It was launched against us. And, yes, I think we have --
      effectively Congress has -- not in so many words, but effectively
     declared that we are at war. But unlike the morning of December 7,
   1941, when you could look at the red suns on the wings of the Japanese
      aircraft and tell who you were at war with, now you really can't.

    There are strong indications that Osama Bin Laden's organization was
     involved with this, perhaps other terrorist groups in his ambit are
     affiliated. I retain some suspicions that there may have been some
     state intelligence services involved. Certainly, Afghanistan -- not
   having intelligence service, but Afghanistan is giving aid to Bin Laden
                         by letting him stay there.

   But one, I think, wants to at least look at the possibility that states
    such as Iraq, over the years, may have been involved in some of these
      acts against us. But the government -- the U.S. government really
   doesn't know yet, and one of the first things to do is to go back over
      earlier terrorist incidents, look at everything carefully with a
    fine-toothed comb and see how we can get it sorted out. There may be
           more involved here than just a single terrorist group.

   ALLEN: Well, I think most indications are that there are more than just
   one. They aid and comfort, the financing, the harboring, the assistance
                       is more than just one country.

   And I am confident, as this is all being re-created, even the evidence
   that we've seen that has been declassified, that's been on CNN, where,
     you know all this information about these 19 individuals, it's all
                getting tracked back to a variety of places.

   But that's where this war is going to have to be fought. It's going to
     need to be fought, obviously, against the heads of these terrorist
   organizations. They need to be knocked out. But also punished are those
     who finance and support and harbor them. And some of the leaders of
   these countries are in a pretty tough position, because there are a lot
    of people in those countries, as Robin was saying, who actually don't
   like the concepts of freedom and liberty and freedom of expression and
                    beliefs that we have in this country.

   And for countries such as Egypt, Pakistan for example, the leaders can
   be very modern, same with the king in Jordan, but there a lot of folks
   who don't share those views. Look what happened to President Sadat for
         being relatively moderate in so far as Israel is concerned.

      CARLSON: Well, what does that mean, Senator, that we're going to
    declare war on Egypt, or -- I mean, the Philippines, apparently, has
                           one of the Bin Laden...

     ALLEN: But that doesn't mean that the Philippines government or the
      Egyptian government, or the Pakistani government or the Jordanian
     government or any of them are actually financing them or supporting
                                    them.

    Now, for those governments that are actually somehow helping them out
    with law enforcement, with intelligence, with communications, I think
     we're going to have to crack down on those who are hiding the funds
   that are getting around. Because this was a very effective -- I hate to
      say anything positive about it -- but it was well- orchestrated,
      well-organized and, obviously, planned for many, many years. This
     wasn't a spontaneous gang huddling together and say, hey, let's do
    this. This was done for years, including getting then trained here in
                                this country.

     PRESS: I see both of you wanted to say something. Robin, go first.

     WRIGHT: No, I was just going to say two points on Jim's accusation
      about the Iraqis. This operation was far more sophisticated than
   anything Bin Laden and his lieutenants have ever carried out before, in
    terms of having people who are well-educated, trained and penetrating
                     the United States and train there.

   At the same time, Saddam Hussein has a dread fear of Islamic extremism
       himself. And the differences between Afghanistan and Iraq, the
              logistics of coordination, are awfully difficult.

                                PRESS: Jamie?

    WITT: I think it's very important for people to understand that, you
     know, FEMA's responsibility and the FBI's responsibility and crisis
     management and (UNINTELLIGIBLE) management. And the FBI has a lead
   responsibility to the response of event. But the key is for the CIA and
   the FBI to have the capability to prevent it from ever happening in the
                                first place.

   But if it does happen, like this event, then we need to make sure that
    the people on the ground have the capability to respond to meet that
          threat, and be able to take care of people. If you have a
      biological-chemical type event, then it may be three or four days
    before you know what it is. And it may be spread everywhere, so it's
    important to do the prevention up front, before it ever happens. And
   that's what is important that the Senator and Robin were talking about.

       PRESS: I tell you what, we're going to take a break. Save your
             question. We've got lots more questions coming up.

    CARLSON: We'll be back in just a minute. We'll take our questions to
   the audience, our student panel here, the audience at George Washington
       University. We'll be right back with our CROSSFIRE special town
                                  meeting.

                             (COMMERCIAL BREAK)

      PRESS: Welcome back to our special CROSSFIRE town meeting here at
   George Washington University. With our studio audience and our panel of
       experts, we are debating and discussing how America responds to
                terrorism. Here with Tucker Carlson. Tucker.

   CARLSON: Thank you, Bill. We had no trouble rustling up questions from
   this group. This is Javier Martinez from Phoenix, Arizona. What's your
                                  question?

    JAVIER MARTINEZ: What I wanted to know what is being done to protect
                  Arab Americans within the United States?

                 CARLSON: Senator Allen, what is being done?

     ALLEN: I think people are on heightened alert in a lot of different
     ways in this country, worried about terrorist threats, so forth. I
      think it is incumbent on all leaders, whether it's the president,
     whether it's a senator, whether it's a local sheriff, to understand
   that what makes America great and unique is that a government has been
         instituted two centuries ago to protect individual rights.

   And while we are fighting this terrorist threat, there is no reason --
   in fact, we cannot abrogate basic human rights, whether that is freedom
        of expression, the writ of habeas corpus being available, no
    unwarranted searches and seizures, and you don't discriminate against
   people because of their ethnic origin, their religious beliefs. And so
    there have been a few unfortunate, terrible attacks on people of Arab
   descent. Everywhere I have seen, there has been outrage over it. So we
               do need to make sure that there is protection,

   I spoke to family who lives relatively nearby me -- of Islamic descent
    -- I'm not going to say which country they're from -- but Muslims. If
   you talk to those youngsters and see how they feel, they feel first and
   foremost American citizens, regardless of their ethnicity. They feel as
    bad as anybody who may be from Ireland or France or Japan or Korea or
   Mexico or anywhere else. They feel violated. We need to understand that
   all Americans share this grief. And there is no reason, in fact we have
     to be on heightened alert that we don't have any of these malicious
     attacks on persons or their facilities, their places of worship, or
                                 businesses.

    PRESS: I see you want to follow up, but I want to ask you. Is there a
     religious -- are there religious roots to these acts of terrorism?

    WRIGHT: Absolutely not. There is nothing in Islam -- in the same way
   there is nothing in Christianity or Judaism -- that encourages suicide
     actions or the killing of innocents. I think the president actually
    took a very important step today by going to a mosque, trying to make
      sure that everyone understands this is not a war against Arabs or
        Muslims, but it's a war between civilization and terrorists.

                PRESS: I see. Let me get a question for you.

                        WOOLSEY: Can I say something?

                       PRESS: Go ahead quickly. Sure.

    WOOLSEY: Not only is it terribly wrong for Americans to discriminate
    against attack, Arab Americans or Muslims, it is incredibly, stupid.
        Because if the FBI is going to have -- (APPLAUSE) -- and it's
    dangerous. If the FBI is going to have any opportunity in rooting out
   some of the people who may be here that are still terrorists, they are
    going to need the cooperation of the Muslim- American community, the
    Arab-American community. And no one is doing more damage to the fight
   against terrorism than the idiots who are persecuting American Muslims
                             and Arab Americans.

               PRESS: And this Mark from San Francisco. Mark.

   MARK: I have been hearing the phrase "war against terrorism" used a lot
   in the last week, and I was wondering -- I can't help but think that's
   very similar to the phrase "war on drugs" that was declared late '80s.
    And I was wondering what are the differences between the war on drugs
      and the war on terrorism, so we don't lose this war on terrorism?

           PRESS: James Lee Witt, do you want to tackle that one?

     WITT: Well, I think there is a lot of difference between the war on
                       drugs and the war on terrorism.

    You physically have a threat to our freedom, and it's serious threat.
   And I think to follow up, too, the question that was asked a while ago,
    I think every person has value. And every person should be respected.
   And that is what we're all about in America. And you know, every person
      -- we do not want to give up our freedom. So the war on terrorism
     different than the war on drugs, totally different. It is a threat
     against our freedom, and that is why it is so important that we win
    this war. ALLEN: The war on drugs and the war on terrorism have some
    analogies, and I think that our law enforcement, our military and our
      intelligence folks ought to be given the same tools that our law
     enforcement are given in the war on drugs. The war on drugs is very
   difficult, and it obviously comes from a lot of places in our streets,
     and maybe it's not as quite as direct, obviously, as bombing of the
                     world trade center or the Pentagon.

    But you know what? In infiltrating and fighting the war on drugs, one
    of the way you do this, you have to infiltrate these groups. You have
     to pay informants. You need to make undercover drug buys. You need
     surveillance. Those same tactics as law enforcement or intelligence
   efforts have to be utilized here on the war on terrorists. It cannot be
      done from only satellites. We do need to pay informants, and the
   director well knows that there are prohibitions on us paying informants
   or putting under hire those who have been convicted of certain crimes.

    Well, you know, when you're dealing with a bunch of sharks, sometimes
     you have to use sharks to attract them, and cut up those sharks for
   bait and bring them in. You're not dealing with the most savory folks.
   These are not choirboys that you are dealing with. So we ought to allow
      our law enforcement whether external or internal -- you know, I'm
   talking FBI or whether -- most likely the CIA to hire on some of these
   other folks that are in that nest of scorpions to help us find out who
   is at risk to our country. That is done on the war on drugs. We need to
    take those handcuffs off our law enforcement and intelligence so they
                can better protect us as well as themselves.

      CARLSON: Thank you, Senator. This is Christina Pentek (ph), from
         Lawrenceville, New Jersey. Christina, what's your question?

      CHRISTINA PENTEK: Hi. I was wondering about the implicit risks in
     attacking countries that support terrorism and the feeding flame of
                           terrorism by doing so.

    CARLSON: You were just in Afghanistan last year. Paint a word picture
   for what it would mean to send ground troops into Afghanistan. What do
     you think that would -- what sort of repercussions that would have?

   WRIGHT: You know, it strikes me that Somalia and Beirut and Vietnam all
     look easy by comparison. This is a society without infrastructure.
    There are not roads to travel on. The logistical difficulties in some
    kind of military operation in Afghanistan are really unprecedented. I
     think you point out a very important issue. How we conduct this war
   will be critical in determining whether we actually eliminate the whole
    phenomena or just a group of people, and endanger producing even more
                -- we end up prolonging the war as a result.

      PRESS: Question here from Tabitha. Tabitha is from Williamsburg,
          Virginia, Senator. A constituent of yours. So be careful.

              TABITHA: Tabitha. PRESS: Tabitha. I'm very sorry.

    TABITHA: That's OK. I was wondering what is the possibility that the
      Bush administration will dramatically change its foreign policy,
          considering we have been kind of awakened from a slumber?

           PRESS: Do you want to direct that to anyone particular?

                       TABITHA: Why not Senator Allen?

       ALLEN: You are from Williamsburg, or James City County, right?

   TABITHA: I'm from James City County. I have lived there all my life. My
                           parents voted for you.

      ALLEN: Well, good. Thank you. Well, I think that the Bush foreign
   policy, obviously, has focus. President Bush is very focused on rooting
   out terrorism. He is worried in what Robin was talking about as how we
   are we going procure this war, so to speak, and how we are going to be
     sure in making sure there is as little damage to those who are not
                            guilty or complicit.

    There is also a concern that there are those terrorists still here in
     this country, and when we do strike that there could be retaliation
    here. And it may not be taking over an airplane. It may be who knows
      what. But I think as far as our policy and the principles of this
   country, we are staying strong. There are those who say that we should
                      back off our support for Israel.

   I say we stick with our friends, we stick with those who value freedom
    and democracy. We cannot be cowed by terrorists, and I think the Bush
         administration is as resolved as ever to keep their policy.

    PRESS: Let me ask you there is it -- the question is, as I understand
   Tabitha's -- is our policy perhaps too one-sided in the middle east so
             that we are generating hatred toward United States.

       ALLEN: The United States historically has been, I think, fairly
     evenhanded in the middle east. We have supported Israel for years.
    Israel is a democracy over there. But we have made common cause with
   moderate Arab states. We tried for years to broker a settlement between
    Israel and the Palestinians. A very, very generous offer was made to
   Yasser Arafat last year by Barak. He turned it down. I don't regard our
    position in the Mideast as having been improperly in one direction or
     another. I think what has to happen is that the Bush administration
    needs, I think, to hear the message similar to what Mr. Carville said
     in the last election, but it's the regimes, stupid, rather than the
                                  economy.

    The problem is the regimes in the Mideast that support terrorism and
    give sustenance to it, whether it's the Taliban or Saddam Hussein or
   part of the Iranian regime, Syria. One needs to either get a change in
    posture of the regimes or change the regimes. Otherwise, you are just
       swatting mosquitoes to try to deal with malaria. You have to do
     something about the swamp. Bin Laden is a terrible, big, powerful,
   angry, evil mosquito, but he is just a mosquito. The problem is behind
               him. The problem is the people who support him.

   CARLSON: Let's talk about what's being done to swat him. This is Scott
                   Levy from Arlington Heights, Illinois.

    SCOTT LEVY: Director Woolsey or Senator Allen, we have heard a lot in
   recent weeks and months about the characterization of the intelligence
    community as a complete failure, be it the purchasing of information
    from our agents, or in recent weeks we have seen, you know, obviously
   the trade towers and a lack of knowledge about those incidents or their
                           ability to take place.

      My question is, have we done anything or can you enlighten us of
   activities in recent weeks that the intelligence community has taken to
   be proactive? How should we be confident in our intelligence community
       when it certainly seems that they have failed us many different
                                 instances.

   WOOLSEY: Senator Allen made a very good point earlier, that we have to
   be able to penetrate these terrorist groups overseas. And in 1995 -- I
     hasten to say, after I stepped down from the job -- the CIA adopted
    some guidelines that make it difficult to penetrate terrorist groups
    because they -- it -- one is deterred, if one is a case officer, from
    recruiting a spy inside a group if that spy has some violence in his
    background. You know, that is like telling FBI to penetrate the Mafia
   but you can't put any crooks on your payroll as informants. It is nuts.
                        Hopefully, that will change.

    The CIA, actually, overseas did a rather good job in 1999 at blocking
   some terrorist incidents that we were going to take place at the end of
    '99 for the year 2000. But the budgeteers in the executive branch --
   and possibly in the Congress later, but mainly in the executive branch
   -- in our time-honored American fashion, as soon as Y2K was over, they
      dusted off their hands and said, "Well, the terrorism problem is
     solved. Let's cut the budget." And so for the last year or two, the
    budget for counterterrorism work by CIA has been down. That is two of
                     the things that need to be changed.

              PRESS: Panelists, thank you. You are watching...

                           Allen: One other thing.

                      PRESS: Sorry, Senator. Go ahead.

        ALLEN: What -- I agree everything he said. Do not blame these
      hardworking, dedicated individuals in law enforcement and also in
   intelligence overseas. They have very risky, dangerous jobs. And so I'm
   not going to blame them. They need more tools. They need to take those
     handcuffs off. In addition, to the -- the worries about biological
    terrorism, another one that we need to worry about is cyberterrorism.
      Again, that is something that could just really foul up not only
   transportation, but finances and our power grids in this country. So...
    PRESS: We are going to a break. We'll be back soon with our CROSSFIRE
   special town meeting: how America responds to terrorism. Live from the
    campus of George Washington University. We'll be right back with more
                        questions from our audience.

                             (COMMERCIAL BREAK)

   CARLSON: Welcome back to CROSSFIRE's special town meeting. We are here
    at George Washington University in Washington, D.C. talking about the
     tragic events of six days ago. With us a terrific panel. Let me ask
   you, James Lee Witt. What can the average American do to protect him or
         herself from future terrorist attacks, should they happen?

   WITT: Well, I think the most important thing they can do, Tucker, is to
   set down as a family and put a plan that they could have as a family in
     knowing what to do if some type of an event happens. Because if you
   have children at school, and both the parents are at work, and an event
    happens that disrupts that community, they need to know of somebody's
   phone number -- an aunt or uncle or a cousin in another state or out of
      that area that they could all call just to say that we are okay.
     Because the fear of not knowing causes a lot of other people to get
    affected or hurt because they are very concerned about their family.

   And then also, they can sit down and make sure that they have -- if you
   are preparing for a hurricane or tornado, whatever it may be, make sure
      you have a kit in your home to be prepared. Those are just small
    things. Doesn't cost much at all. You can go to your local stores and
   buy what you need. And talk to your local emergency manager, your local
   fire chief, your local police chief and say, "What would you do if this
          happens? How can we be prepared." That's very important.

      PRESS: Thank you, James Lee Witt. Former director of the Federal
     Emergency Management Agency. Question now from Jeff, Woodbury, New
                            York. Correct, Jeff?

                               JEFF: Correct.

                      PRESS: You've got the microphone.

    JEFF: My question is addressed to anybody. Accepting that there is a
   war and accepting that it could be very extensive, with many countries
   involved -- do I, as an 18-year-old American citizen, have to worry at
              all about the potential of some kind of a draft?

      PRESS: Senator, that answer would be partly up to you. How do you
                                answer that?

    ALLEN: This was brought up. We had a briefing meeting today. I don't
       see any reason for us to reinstitute the draft. What I do find
    interesting is how this tragedy has brought out the best in America,
   whether it's firefighters, rescue squad members, law enforcement. But a
    lot of folks actually enlisting, volunteering. I like the approach of
    people volunteering. I see no reason to reinstitute the draft. PRESS:
    I'm sure that's good news to everybody here in this audience. Did you
   notice that -- I could feel the tension in the room when that question
       was asked. Justin has a question. Justin, where from you from?

   JUSTIN: I'm from Manhattan. I was born and raised in New York City. My
   question is for anyone on the panel. If we take do out Osama Bin Laden,
   what happens if he is just cell under somebody that we don't know? That
   there is even more of a hierarchy. If that happens, what do we do then?
        Do we just continue going after everybody? This it could be a
                       never-ending process, going up.

            PRESS: No, that question is directed at Robin Wright.

   WRIGHT: I think it's clear that Osama Bin Laden is the Ford Foundation
   for Islamic extremists. He is the money bags. He makes it possible. He
   has network of lieutenants and he has a network of wide cells. Yes, if
     we get Osama Bin Laden, I actually think that's the easiest part of
                 this war, as difficult as it's going to be.

   The much more difficult part is finding those cells that are penetrated
   in different parts of world, tracking them, tracking their money links.
    One of the biggest parts of this -- and this is what gets back to the
    question of the draft -- it is not an army. This is not going to be a
   war with a lot of frontlines. This is going to be an intelligence war.
      Finding the assets, blocking the assets that make it possible for
    extremist groups to position people in foreign countries and pay for
                       things like flight instruction.

     PRESS: But if you get Osama, does that solve the problem? Does that
                              kill the network?

     WRIGHT: No. Not at all. I think that this network has been in place
     long enough, it is diverse enough, and it has enough connections to
    groups like Egypt's Islamic Jihad, that it's a very wide war that we
                             are about to wage.

    CARLSON: We have a question from Andy Compton from Anchorage, Alaska.

   ANDY COMPTON: I was wondering in the recent weeks we have finally found
      somewhat of a peace fire in Israel. I'm wondering if after seeing
    videos of the Palestinians cheering in the street if we need to worry
                    about that completely erupting again.

          CARLSON: Mr. Woolsey, what do you make of those videos...

                           WOOLSEY: A peace fire?

                           COMPTON: A cease fire.

       WOOLSEY: Well, not exactly a cease fire. Certainly not from the
      Israelis' point of view. I think that on this issue we are really
   dealing with Yasser Arafat, someone who has shown himself -- and those
   are basically in power in the Palestinian authority -- shown himself to
   really want to end the existence of state of Israel. We hoped that what
   we had from 1993 until last summer, was a Palestinian version of Sadat.
   If not quite as good as Sadat, at least something close enough that he
       would have gone along with a reasonable deal. He was offered an
   extraordinarily generous deal by Prime Minister Barak, and rejected it
               and started killing Israeli women and children.

    As far as I'm concerned, there wasn't a cease-fire. And I think a lot
    of Americans will increasingly -- and I think sadly -- begin to turn
      even further away than we have now from the prospect of trying to
     broker a peace in the Mideast by those pictures of the Palestinians
           dancing and cheering at sight of 5,000 Americans dying.

    PRESS: Director, I am going to interrupt because we just have about a
           second left. This is Maeve from Pennington, New Jersey.

      MAEVE: How can we fight terrorists within other countries without
                     fighting the countries themselves?

         PRESS: I guess, Robin, you start that and we'll go around?

   WRIGHT: That's one of the great questions. And in fact, the problem is
   we are often going to have to get some of these cells, collaborate with
     governments who engaged in gross human rights abuses themselves --
   which is one of the reasons that these extremists emerged in the first
                   place. It's a vicious cycle to unravel.

                       PRESS: Quick comment, Senator?

   ALLEN: In the event that the Taliban government in Afghanistan, Maeve,
   does not cooperate, we may be in an altercation with them. I'm not the
        commander in chief, but there is an example. There are other
   governments and other people in these other countries who are going to
   realize that it's in their own best interest not to be harboring these
   terrorists, so that they can end up hopefully having a more prosperous,
                                 free life.

   CARLSON: OK, Senator. We're going to have to end it there. But happily
   we have an entire four more days of CNN CROSSFIRE town meetings. I hope
   you will join us. I hope you all here in Washington, D.C. will join us
         tomorrow night. We will have Dick Gephardt of the House of
                     Representatives, Democratic leader.

   PRESS: We want to thank our guests, thank our panelists tonight. Thank
    you very much. Senator Allen, Robin Wright, James Lee Witt and James
      Woolsey. Thanks to our studio audience. A special CROSSFIRE town
    meeting. We will be back again tomorrow night from George Washington
   University. Good night. Thanks for joining us. Wolf Blitzer is next on
                              CNN. good night.

                            CARLSON: Good night.

                             PRESS: Good night.
