http://www.caed.uscourts.gov/caed/Documents.nsf/3a55ca523f1ad3ef882563fb0080c38f/ab2d413ead8c1f0c882569df006a03fb/$FILE/LocalRules.PDF

   Local Rules of the United States District Court EASTERN DISTRICT OF
   CALIFORNIA Effective August 1, 1997 The Court wishes to acknowledge the
   generous assistance rendered by Ann Taylor Schwing, Esq., in the
   preparation of these Local Rules. AMENDMENTS TO THE LOCAL RULES The
   Local Rules of Court for the Eastern District of California were last
   printed in hard copy format on April 15, 1997. Since that time, the
   Local Rules on the list below have been amended. The updated Local
   Rules are available on 3 ½" floppy disk from the Clerk's Office (in
   WordPerfect format). You may obtain copies of the updated Local Rules
   via mail by sending a written request with a self-addressed stamped
   envelope ($3.95 postage and capable of holding 8/5" x 11" x 1", for
   paper, or a self-addressed stamped 3 ½" disk mailer for floppy disk
   with $0.7 postage) to 501 "I" Street, Room 4-200, Sacramento, CA 95814.
   You may also stop by the court to obtain additional copies free of
   charge. Amended Rules Rule 6-136 Calculation of Time Periods Rule 7-131
   Counsel Identification, Signatures, and Facsimile Documents Rule 16-240
   Status Conference Rule 16-240 Status Conference Rule 16-271 Voluntary
   Dispute Resolution Program Rule 26-252 Discovery Limitations (Struck in
   its entirety.) Rule 30-250 Depositions Rule 33-250 Interrogatories Rule
   34-250 Production of Documents Rule 36-250 Requests for Admission Rule
   37-251 Motions Dealing with Discovery Matters Rule 72-302 Duties to Be
   Performed By Magistrate Judges Rule 73-305 Procedures For The
   Disposition of Civil Actions on Consent of the Parties Rule 78-230
   Civil Motion Calendar and Procedure Appendix A Automated Case
   Assignment Plan Admiralty and in Rem Rules Rule A-500 Title and Scope
   of Rules Rule A-501 The United States Marshal THE LOCAL RULES HAVE BEEN
   REORDERED. THE NEW SEQUENCING CAN BE FOUND AT OUR WEBSITE AT
   WWW.CAED.USCOURTS.GOV. Revised: October 1, 2001 EASTERN DISTRICT OF
   CALIFORNIA LOCAL RULES GENERAL RULES Rule Number Title and Contents of
   Rule 1-100 TITLE - CONSTRUCTION (a) Title (b) Renumbering (c)
   Construction (d) Applicability (e) Effective Date 1-101 DEFINITIONS
   1-102 SCOPE AND AVAILABILITY OF LOCAL RULES (a) Scope (b) Availability
   of Local Rules (c) Notice After Adoption (d) Procedures Outside the
   Rules 83-103 POLICY REGARDING WEAPONS IN THE COURTHOUSE AND COURTROOMS
   (a) Prohibition on Unauthorized Weapons (b) Authorization for Weapon
   Possession (c) Use of Weapons in Evidence 11-110 SANCTIONS FOR
   NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES 3-120 SESSIONS OF COURT - INTRA DISTRICT VENUE
   (a) Sacramento and Fresno (b) Commencement of Civil Actions (c)
   Assignment of Actions (d) Transfer (e) General Duty Judge 77-121 THE
   CLERK OF THE DISTRICT COURT (a) Locations (b) Office Hours (c) Advance
   Payment of Fees 63-122 AUTHORITY OF ASSIGNED JUDGE AND EMERGENCIES
   83-123 RELATED CASES (a) Definition of Related Cases (b) Duties of
   Counsel (c) Reassignment (d) Refiling (e) Habeas Corpus Petitions 7-130
   GENERAL FORMAT OF PAPERS 7-131 COUNSEL IDENTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE
   7-132 CAPTION AND TITLE 24-133 NOTICE OF CLAIM OF UNCONSTITUTIONALITY
   (a) Notice of Claim of Unconstitutionality of Federal Law (b) Notice of
   Claim of Unconstitutionality of State Law 5-134 FILING AND CONTENTS OF
   DOCUMENTS (a) Delivery to the Clerk (b) Filing of Multiple Copies (c)
   Reference to Parties (d) Citations (e) Depositions (f) Tables 5-135
   SERVICE OF DOCUMENTS DURING ACTION (a) Proof of Service (b) Service
   Upon All Parties (c) Service Upon Attorney 6-136 CALCULATION OF TIME
   PERIODS (a) Additional Time After Service by Mail (b) Computation of
   Time (c) Specific Time Provisions 5-137 REDUCTION OF ORDERS TO
   WRITING-SERVICE OF ORDERS (a) Reduction of Orders to Writing (b)
   Service 39-138 FILES AND RECORDS - EXHIBITS (a) Custody and Withdrawal
   (b) Sealing of Documents (c) Custody of Exhibits (d) Withdrawal of
   Civil Exhibits (e) Withdrawal of Criminal Exhibits (f) Disposition of
   Unclaimed Exhibits (g) Substitution of Copies 43-140 AFFIDAVITS (a)
   Requirements (b) Affidavits Referencing Depositions 83-141 STIPULATIONS
   (a) Form (b) Order 6-142 EXTENDING AND SHORTENING TIME (a) Extensions
   on Stipulation (b) Contents of Application for Extension (c) Initial Ex
   Parte Extension (d) Time for Requesting Extensions (e) Shortening Time
   83-143 APPEALS FROM BANKRUPTCY COURT (a) Motion for Leave to Appeal
   from Bankruptcy Court (b) Determination of Reviewability 67-150
   DEPOSITS OF REGISTRY FUNDS (a) Deposits as of Right (b) Other Deposits
   (c) Routine Placement of Deposit (d) Special Placement of Deposit (e)
   Order for Deposit - Interest-Bearing Account (f) Order Directing
   Investment of Funds by Clerk (g) Order for Disbursement of Registry
   Funds (h) Registry Fund Fees 65.1-151 SECURITY (a) Scope of Rule (b)
   Security for Costs (c) Bond for Writ of Attachment (d) Supersedeas Bond
   (e) Form of Bond (f) Corporate Surety (g) Personal Surety (h) Cash,
   Negotiable Bonds of the United States and Property Bonds (i) Submission
   to Jurisdiction: Agent for Service of Process (j) Further Security or
   Justification of personal Sureties 16-160 NOTICE OF SETTLEMENT OR OTHER
   DISPOSITION (a) Notice (b) Dispositional Documents 47-161 GRAND AND
   PETIT TRIAL JURORS 47-162 EXAMINATION AND CHALLENGES OF TRIAL JURY -
   CIVIL AND CRIMINAL (a) Examination of Jurors (b) Procedure 48-162
   IMPANELMENT OF TRIAL JURY - CIVIL AND CRIMINAL (a) Number of Jurors (b)
   Procedure 51-163 JURY INSTRUCTIONS AND VERDICTS - CIVIL AND CRIMINAL
   ACTIONS (a) Lodging (b) Form and Number (c) Content (d) Standard
   Instructions (e) Verdict and Special Interrogatories (f) Conference -
   Objections 80-170 COURT REPORTERS AND COURT RECORDERS 83-171
   PUBLICATION 83-173 PHOTOGRAPHING, RECORDING OR BROADCASTING OF JUDICIAL
   PROCEEDINGS (a) Prohibitions imposed (b) Permissible Reproduction
   83-180 ATTORNEYS (a) Admission to the Bar of this Court (b) Practice in
   this Court (c) Notice of Change in Status (d) Penalty for Unauthorized
   Practice (e) Standards of Professional Conduct 83-181 CERTIFIED
   STUDENTS (a) Definitions (b) Eligibility for Certification (c)
   Application for Certification (d) Permitted Activities (e) Supervising
   Attorney (f) Use of the Designation "Certified Student" (g) Duration of
   Certification (h) Rights Upon Withdrawal of Certification 83-182
   ATTORNEYS - APPEARANCE AND WITHDRAWAL (a) Appearance as Attorney (b)
   Withdrawal (c) Withdrawal Following Limited Appearance (d) Change of
   Address (e) Substitution of Attorneys (f) Local Co-Counsel 83-183
   PERSONS APPEARING IN PROPRIA PERSONA (a) Rules Governing Appearance (b)
   Address Changes 83-184 DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS AGAINST ATTORNEYS (a)
   Discipline (b) Status - Suspension or Disbarment 81-190 PETITIONS FOR
   HABEAS CORPUS AND MOTIONS PURSUANT TO 28 U.S.C. § 2255 (a) Scope of
   this Rule (b) Form of Petitions and Motions (c) Filing (d) Assignment
   (e) Contents (f) Where Relief Granted 81-191 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR
   HABEAS CORPUS PETITIONS INVOLVING THE DEATH PENALTY (a) Applicability
   (b) Notices from California Attorney General (c) Notice from
   Petitioner's Counsel (d) Counsel (e) Filing (f) Assignment to Judges
   (g) Transfer of Venue (h) Stays of Execution (i) Procedures for
   Considering the Petition (j) Evidentiary Hearing (k) Rulings CIVIL
   RULES Rule Number Title and Contents of Rule 3-200 DESIGNATION OF
   CATEGORY OF ACTION 38-201 DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL 17-202 MINORS AND
   INCOMPETENTS (a) Appointment of Representative or Guardian (b)
   Settlement (c) Disclosure of Attorney's Interest (d) Attendance at
   Hearing (e) Payment of Judgment (f) Interim Disbursements 24-203 NOTICE
   OF REQUIREMENT OF THREE-JUDGE COURT 8-204 ALLEGATIONS OF JURISDICTION
   23-205 SPECIAL RULE FOR CLASS ACTIONS (a) Determination (b)
   Counterclaims or Cross-Claims 8-206 SPECIAL RULE FOR SOCIAL SECURITY
   AND BLACK LUNG ACTIONS 4-210 SERVICE OF PROCESS AND RETURN OF SERVICE
   (a) Issuance of Summons (b) Proof of Service of Process (c) Filing of
   Waiver of Service 15-220 CHANGED PLEADINGS 78-230 CIVIL MOTION CALENDAR
   AND PROCEDURE (a) Motion Calendar (b) Notice, Motion, Brief and
   Evidence (c) Opposition and Non-Opposition (d) Reply (e) Related or
   Counter-Motions (f) Calculation of Time Periods (g) Continuances (h)
   Hearing and Oral Argument (i) Use of Affidavits (j) Failure to Appeal
   (k) Applications for Reconsideration (l) Motions Before a Magistrate
   Judge (m) Motions in Prisoner Cases 65-231 TEMPORARY RESTRAINING ORDER
   - PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION (a) Temporary Restraining Orders (b) Timing of
   Application (c) Documents to be Filed (d) Preliminary Injunction (e)
   Modification or Dissolution (f) Actions Involving Real Property 66-232
   RECEIVERS (a) Definitions (b) Notice: Temporary Receiver (c)
   Continuance of Receivership (d) Appointment of a Receiver (e) Reports
   of Receivers (f) Notice of Hearings (g) Employment and Compensation of
   Attorneys, Accountants and Investigators (h) Deposit of Funds (i)
   Undertaking of Receiver 16-240 STATUS CONFERENCE (a) Conference (b)
   Reports (c) Exceptions to Mandatory Scheduling Order Requirement 30-250
   DEPOSITIONS (a) Filing of Depositions (b) Custody and Maintenance of
   Deposition Transcripts (c) Cross-Reference to Fed. R. Civ. P. 26 33-250
   INTERROGATORIES (a) Interrogatories (b) Objections (c) Filing of
   Interrogatories (d) Cross-Reference to Fed. R. Civ. P. 26 34-250
   PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (a) Requests for Production (b) Objections (c)
   Filing of Requests for Production (d) Cross-Reference to Fed. R. Civ.
   P. 26 36-250 REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION (a) Requests for Admission (b)
   Objections (c) Filing of Requests for Admission (d) Cross-Reference to
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 26 45-250 SUBPOENAS DUCES TECUM (a) Subpoenas Duces
   Tecum (b) Objections (c) Service of Subpoenas Duces Tecum (d) Filing of
   Subpoenas Duces Tecum 37-251 MOTIONS DEALING WITH DISCOVERY MATTERS (a)
   Hearing re Discovery Disagreements (b) Requirement of Conferring (c)
   Stipulation re Discovery Disagreement (d) Failure to Meet or Obtain
   Stipulation (e) Exceptions from Required Stipulation re Discovery
   Disagreement (f) Notice Provisions 26-252 DISCOVERY LIMITATIONS (a) No
   Automatic Disclosure (b) Expert Witness Disclosure (c) Pretrial
   Disclosure (d) Interrogatories and Deposition Limits (e) Meet and
   Confer Requirements 56-260 MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY
   ADJUDICATION (a) Motions for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
   (b) Opposition (c) Stipulated Facts (d) Use of Affidavits (e) Use of
   Depositions (f) Summary Adjudication 16-270 COURT SETTLEMENT
   CONFERENCES (a) Setting of Settlement Conferences (b) Settlement
   Conferences Before the Assigned Judge or Magistrate Judge (c)
   Settlement Conference Statements (d) Confidentiality of Settlement
   Conference Statements (e) Delivery and Return of Settlement Conference
   Statements (f) Participation of a Principal 16-271 VOLUNTARY DISPUTE
   RESOLUTION PROGRAM (a) Introduction (b) Program Administration (c)
   Referral to VDRP (d) VDRP Selection Process (e) Panels of Neutrals;
   Selection of Neutrals (f) Disqualification of Neutrals (g) Compensation
   of Neutrals (h) Immunity of Neutrals (i) Stipulation and Order for VDRP
   Referral (j) Communications By Neutral Before VDRP Session (k) Written
   VDRP Statements (l) Attendance at the VDRP Session (m) Confidentiality
   of VDRP Proceedings (n) Neutral's VDRP Completion Report (o) Parties
   Joint VDRP Completion Report (p) Violations of this Local Rule 16-272
   NOTICE OF SETTLEMENT (a) General Rule (b) Sanctions 40-280 DILIGENCE -
   SETTING FOR PRETRIAL CONFERENCE OR FOR TRIAL (a) Counsel's Duty of
   Diligence (b) Motion to Set for Pretrial (c) Opposition and Reply re
   Motion to Set (d) Notice 43-140 16-281 PRETRIAL STATEMENTS (a) Time for
   Filing (b) Form, Contents (c) Claims of Privilege 16-282 PRETRIAL
   CONFERENCE 16-283 PRETRIAL ORDER (a) Preparation of Pretrial Order (b)
   Contents of Pretrial Order (c) Pretrial Order to Control 16-285 TRIAL
   BRIEFS (a) Opening Briefs (b) Responding Briefs 52-290 SETTLEMENT OF
   FINDINGS OF FACT AND CONCLUSIONS OF LAW (a) Preparation of Proposed
   Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law (b) Procedure (c) Disapproval
   50-291 MOTIONS FOR JUDGMENT AS A MATTER OF LAW 59-291 MOTIONS FOR NEW
   TRIAL 54-292 COSTS(a) Rules for Taxing Costs (b) Filing of Cost Bill
   (c) Objections (d) Taxing Costs (e) Review (f) Items Taxable 54-293
   AWARDS OF ATTORNEYS' FEES (a) Time for Application (b) Matters to be
   Shown (c) Criteria for Award MAGISTRATES RULES Rule Number Title and
   Contents of Rule 72-300 SCOPE OF MAGISTRATE JUDGES' RULES - GENERAL
   AUTHORITY (a) General Applicability (b) Definitions 73-301 TRIALS BY
   CONSENT 72-302 DUTIES TO BE PERFORMED BY MAGISTRATE JUDGES (a) General
   (b) Duties to Be Performed in Criminal Matters by a Magistrate Judge
   Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 636(a), (b)(1)(A), (b)(1)(B), (b)(3), or Other
   Law (c) Duties to Be Performed in Civil Matters by a Magistrate Judge
   Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 636(a), (b)(1)(A), (b)(1)(B),(b)(3), or Other
   Law (d) Retention by a Judge 72-303 ROLE OF MAGISTRATE JUDGE AND
   PROCEDURE FOR RESOLVING GENERAL PRETRIAL MATTERS IN CRIMINAL AND CIVIL
   ACTIONS (a) Determination (b) Finality (c) Reconsideration by a Judge
   (d) Opposition (e) Notice and Argument (f) Standard of Review 72-304
   MAGISTRATE JUDGES' AUTHORITY IN EXCEPTED PRETRIAL MATTERS (a)
   Determination (b) Objections (c) Transcripts (d) Opposition (e) Notice
   and Argument (f) Review 73-305 PROCEDURES FOR THE DISPOSITION OF CIVIL
   ACTIONS ON CONSENT OF THE PARTIES (a) Notice of Option (b) Reference to
   Magistrate Judge (c) Appeal to the Court of Appeals CRIMINAL RULES Rule
   Number Title and Contents of Rule Crim. 50-400 GENERAL RULES APPLICABLE
   IN CRIMINAL CASES AND PLAN FOR PROMPT DISPOSITION OF CRIMINAL CASES(a)
   Applicability of General Rules (b) Adoption of Plan for Prompt
   Disposition of Criminal Cases (c) Availability of Plan Crim. 18-402
   INTRADISTRICT VENUE (a) Commencement of Criminal Actions (b) Assignment
   of Actions (c) Transfer Crim. 46-410 FIXED SUMS PAYABLE IN LIEU OF
   APPEARANCE Crim. 58-420 REFERRAL OF MISDEMEANORS TO MAGISTRATE JUDGES
   (a) Reference to a Magistrate Judge (b) Court Reporters Crim. 58-421
   DISPOSITION OF MISDEMEANOR ACTIONS (a) Authorization (b) Pretrial and
   Post-Trial Matters (c) Jury Trials (d) Presentence Reports Crim. 58-422
   APPEAL FROM CONVICTION BY A MAGISTRATE JUDGE (a) Notice of Appeal (b)
   Record (c) Assignment to a Judge (d) Notice of Hearing (e) Time for
   Serving and Filing Briefs Crim. 58-423 REFERRAL OF MISDEMEANORS AND
   PETTY OFFENSES TO THE DISTRICT COURT Crim. 12-430 CRIMINAL MOTIONS AND
   PROCEDURES (a) Motion Calendar (b) Motion Procedures (c) Notice (d)
   Opposition (e) Reply (f) Extensions of Time (g) Calculation of Time
   Periods (h) Evidentiary Hearings (i) Applications for Reconsideration
   (j) Appeal from Magistrate Judge's Rulings Crim. 17.1-430 CRIMINAL
   TRIAL SETTING PROCEDURES (a) Trial, Trial Confirmation Dates (b)
   Complex Cases (c) Shortening and Extending Time Crim. 16-440 PRETRIAL
   DISCOVERY AND INSPECTION Crim. 17.1-450 TRIAL CONFIRMATION Crim. 32-460
   DISCLOSURE OF PRESENTENCE REPORTS AND RELATED RECORDS (a) Confidential
   Character of Presentence Reports and Related Records (b) Requests for
   Disclosure (c) Availability of Proposed Presentence Report (d)
   Objections to the Report (e) Submission to the Court (f) Formal
   Objections to Report (g) Limitation on Objections (h) Resolution of
   Disputes (i) Sentencing Proceedings Crim. 32-461 DISCLOSURE OF OTHER
   PROBATION RECORDS (a) Confidential Character of Probation Records (b)
   Requests for Disclosure Crim. 35-480 RULE 35 MOTIONS - SERVICE
   ADMIRALTY AND IN REM RULES Rule Number Title and Contents of Rule A-500
   TITLE AND SCOPE OF RULES (a) Title (b) Applicability (c) Inconsistency
   with Other Local Rules A-501 THE UNITED STATES MARSHAL (a) Locations
   (b) Office Hours (c) Emergency Telephone (d) Meaning of "Marshal" A-510
   COMPLAINTS, ALLEGATIONS AND ACCOMPANYING AFFIDAVIT (a) Caption (b)
   Mandatory Allegations (c) Mandatory Allegations in Salvage Actions (d)
   Affidavit Showing Defendant's Absence A-512 PROCESS GENERALLY (a)
   Issuance of Summons (b) Proof of Service (c) Judicial Authorization for
   Arrest, Attachment or Garnishment (d) Issuance of Authorization by the
   Clerk (e) Use of State Procedures (f) Instructions to Marshal (g)
   Seizure of Property Already in Custody of the United States A-513
   PROMPT HEARING FOLLOWING ARREST, ATTACHMENT OR GARNISHMENT A-520
   SECURITY FOR COSTS (a) Security for Costs in Supplemental Rule E
   Actions (b) Security for Costs in Supplemental Rule F Actions (c) Time
   of Posting Security (d) Election to Make Deposit in Lieu of Bond (e)
   Sanction for Failure to Post Security A-521 DEPOSITS OF MARSHAL'S FEES
   AND EXPENSES (a) Deposit Required Before Seizure (b) Additional
   Deposits Required After Seizure (c) Sanction for Failure to Make
   Deposit A-522 INTERVENORS' CLAIMS (a) Presentation of Claims (b)
   Intervenor's Arrest, Attachment or Garnishment (c) Sharing of Marshal's
   Fees and Expenses (d) Intervenor's Obligation Upon Vacation of the
   Arrest, Attachment or Garnishment by the Original Party A-523
   UNDERTAKINGS IN LIEU OF ARREST A-530 PUBLICATION OF NOTICE OF ACTION
   AND ARREST (a) Content of Notice (b) Filing of Proof of Publication
   A-540 DEFAULT IN ACTION IN REM (a) Notice Required (b) Notice to
   Persons with Recorded Interests (c) Evidence of Search for Recorded
   Interests (d) Motion for Default Judgment A-550 CUSTODY OF PROPERTY (a)
   Safekeeping of Property When Seized (b) Cargo Handling, Repairs and
   Movement of the Vessel (c) Motion for Change in Arrangements (d)
   Insurance (e) Claims by Suppliers for Payment of Charges A-560
   APPRAISAL (a) Order for Appraisal (b) Appraiser's Oath (c) Appraisal
   (d) Cost of Appraisal A-570 SALE OF PROPERTY (a) Notice (b) Payment of
   Bid (c) Penalty for Late Payment of Balance (d) Penalty for Default in
   Payment of Balance (e) Report of Sale by the Marshal (f) Time and
   Procedure for Objection to Sale (g) Confirmation of Sale Without Motion
   (h) Confirmation of Sale on Motion (i) Disposition of Deposits (j)
   Title to Property Sold A-580 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES A-590 RATE OF
   PREJUDGMENT INTEREST ALLOWED Appendix A AUTOMATED CASE ASSIGNMENT PLAN
   (a) Purpose (b) Assignment of Civil Actions (c) Assignment of Criminal
   Actions (d) Assignment of Miscellaneous Actions (e) Assignment
   Procedure (f) Reassignments (g) Visiting Judges (h) Review of
   Assignments (i) Assignment Reports GENERAL RULES RULE 1-100 TITLE -
   CONSTRUCTION (a) Title. These are the Local Rules of Practice for the
   United States District Court, Eastern District of California. They may
   be cited as "L.R." (b) Renumbering. These Local Rules have been
   renumbered in accordance with a directive from the Judicial Conference
   of the United States. The numbering is based on a combination of the
   most relevant Federal Rule of Civil Procedure and the pre-existing
   number of the Local Rule at the time of renumbering. When the relevant
   Federal Rule is civil, the number appears without designation; when
   criminal, the abbreviation "Crim" prefaces the rule number to
   distinguish it. Admiralty and in rem rules are prefaced by the letter
   "A." When appropriate, Local Rules previously appearing as single
   general rules have been restated differently as separate rules. Thus,
   for example, Local Rules 47-162 and 48-162 contain material previously
   contained in Local Rule 162, now divided into separate rules
   corresponding to Fed. R. Civ. P. 47 and 48. (c) Construction. These
   Local Rules are adopted pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2071, Fed. R. Civ. P.
   83, and Fed. R. Crim. P. 57. They are intended to supplement and shall
   be construed and administered consistently with and subordinately to
   the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (including the Supplemental Rules
   for Certain Admiralty and Maritime Cases), the Federal Rules of
   Criminal Procedure and the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure. (d)
   Applicability. Local Rules ending in 100 through 199 and 300 through
   399 govern proceedings in all actions in the United States District
   Court for the Eastern District of California to the extent not
   inconsistent with other rules more specifically applicable to the
   particular case. Local Rules ending in 200 through 299 govern
   proceedings in civil actions only, while Local Rules ending in 400
   through 499 are limited in application to criminal actions. Local Rules
   ending in 500 through 599 are the Admiralty and In Rem Rules for the
   Eastern District of California. (e) Effective Date. These Local Rules
   are effective on April 15, 1997, and shall govern all actions then
   pending or commenced thereafter. Where justice requires, the Court may
   order that an action pending prior to that date be governed by the
   practice of the Court prior to the adoption of these Local Rules. RULE
   1-101 DEFINITIONS For purposes of these Rules, unless the context
   otherwise requires, the terms below are defined as follows. (1)
   "Action" includes any case, proceeding, or matter. (2) "Affidavit"
   includes a declaration prepared in accordance with federal law. See 28
   U.S.C. § 1746. (3) "Briefs" include memoranda, points and authorities,
   and other written arguments, or compilations of authorities. (4)
   "Clerk" means the Clerk of the District Court appointed pursuant to 28
   U.S.C. § 751, or a duly authorized deputy clerk, as the case may be.
   (5) "Complaint" includes any complaint, petition, counterclaim,
   cross-claim, claim for relief under Fed. R. Civ. P. 14, or other claim
   for affirmative relief. (6) "Counsel" includes a party acting in
   propria persona, pro se. See L.R. 83-183. (7) "Court" means the Judge
   or Magistrate Judge to whom an action has been assigned or before whom
   an action is being conducted. (8) "Courtroom deputy clerk" means the
   deputy clerk assigned to the particular Judge or Magistrate Judge to
   whom an action has been assigned or the Judge or Magistrate Judge
   before whom an action or a part thereof is being conducted. (9)
   "Defendant" includes any party against whom a complaint, petition,
   counterclaim, cross-claim, claim for relief under Fed. R. Civ. P. 14,
   or any other claim for affirmative relief is made. (10) "En banc" means
   the several Judges or Magistrate Judges acting as a group or sitting en
   banc. (11) "Fed. R. Civ. P." means the Federal Rules of Civil
   Procedure. (12) "Fed. R. Crim. P." means the Federal Rules of Criminal
   Procedure. (13) "Filed" means delivered into the custody of the Clerk
   and accepted by the Clerk for inclusion in the official records of the
   action. (14) "General Duty Judge" means the Judge in Sacramento
   appointed by the Chief Judge to perform the following duties in
   Sacramento: (a) Preside over naturalization ceremonies (or arrange for
   a substitute Judge or Magistrate Judge), and hear contested
   applications for citizenship; (b) Select and impanel Grand Juries and
   preside over matters before the Grand Jury, including: release and
   substitution of jurors and alternates, motions to compel testimony and
   production of records, bank secrecy and other protective orders,
   issuance of subpoenas and motions to disclose or quash, receipt and
   safekeeping of confidential materials such as those submitted to the
   Court pursuant to Fed. R. Crim. P. 6(e)(3)(B); (c) Preside over
   attorney admissions; (d) Assume and discharge the duties of a United
   States Magistrate Judge when the need arises; and (e) Preside over such
   other miscellaneous matters as may from time to time be designated by
   the Chief Judge. (15) "General Order" means an order entered or adopted
   by the Chief Judge or by the Judges en banc relating to internal court
   administration. See L.R. 1-102(a). (16) "Judge" means a United States
   District Judge. (17) "Lodged" means delivered to the Clerk or to the
   courtroom deputy clerk for inclusion in the official records of the
   action, with a request for signature or other appropriate action by the
   Court. (18) "Magistrate Judge" means a United States Magistrate Judge
   appointed pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 631. (19) "Motion" includes all
   motions, applications, petitions, or other requests made to the Court
   for orders or other judicial activity. (20) "Order" means any directive
   by the Court other than a judgment, including oral and telephonic as
   well as written directives. (21) "Plaintiff" includes any party who
   files a complaint, petition, cross-claim, claim for relief under Fed.
   R. Civ. P. 14, or any other claim for affirmative relief. (22)
   "Pretrial Conference" means the final pretrial conference as defined in
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 16(d). See L.R. 16-282. (23) "Received" means accepted
   by the Clerk for physical inclusion in the Court's records but not
   suitable for filing as part of the official record in the action, e.g.,
   copies of correspondence between the parties, letters to the Court not
   suitable for filing, and other miscellaneous documents. (24) "Status
   Conference" means any pretrial, scheduling or discovery conference
   excepting the final pretrial conference as defined in Fed. R. Civ. P.
   16(d). See L.R. 16-240. (25) "Weapon" means any instrument intended to
   be used for attack or defense, including but not limited to firearms
   and knives. See L.R. 83-103. RULE 1-102 SCOPE AND AVAILABILITY OF LOCAL
   RULES (a) Scope. These Rules govern all litigation in the United States
   District Court for the Eastern District of California, the boundaries
   of which are set forth in 28 U.S.C. § 84. Outside the scope of these
   Rules are matters relating to internal court administration that, in
   the discretion of the Court en banc, may be accomplished through the
   use of General Orders, provided, however, that no matter appropriate
   for inclusion in these Rules shall be treated by General Order. No
   litigant shall be bound by any General Order. (b) Availability of Local
   Rules. The Clerk shall maintain in suitable form updated copies of
   these Rules and make copies of these Rules available on request or upon
   payment of a nominal charge, which may be set by General Order. The
   Rules are available from the Clerk in printed form and on 3.5 inch
   computer disk in WordPerfectTM 5.1 (DOS) and ASCII. Upon admission to
   practice in the Eastern District of California, each admittee shall be
   given a copy of the Local Rules then in effect. (c) Notice After
   Adoption. Immediately upon the adoption of these Rules or any change in
   these Rules, copies of the new and revised Local Rules shall be
   provided to such publications and persons as the Chief Judge deems
   appropriate. The Clerk shall promptly notify the Judicial Council and
   the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, all county law
   libraries in the Eastern District and other law libraries maintained by
   the State or by law schools in the Eastern District of California.
   Copies shall be distributed in a manner calculated to ensure maximum
   notification to those practicing in the Eastern District of California.
   A notice shall be posted prominently in the Clerk's Offices, and copies
   shall be publicly available there for distribution. (d) Procedures
   Outside the Rules. Unless contrary to the Federal Rules of Civil and
   Criminal Procedure, the Court in its discretion may make such orders
   supplementary or contrary to the provisions of these Rules as it may
   deem appropriate and in the interests of justice and case management
   under Fed. R. Civ. P. 16 or Fed. R. Crim. P. 17.1 in a special action
   circumstance. RULE 83-103 POLICY REGARDING WEAPONS IN THE COURTHOUSE
   AND COURTROOMS (a) Prohibition on Unauthorized Weapons. Only duly
   authorized law enforcement officers shall be allowed to carry weapons
   in the United States Courthouses or any building housing a court of the
   United States within the Eastern District of California. Only the
   United States Marshal, deputy marshals and court security officers are
   authorized to carry weapons within the confines of the courtrooms,
   secured judicial corridors, and chambers of the Judges, Magistrate
   Judges, and Bankruptcy Judges. The United States Marshal is ordered to
   provide appropriate security to ensure against the introduction of
   unauthorized weapons or other dangerous weapons into the United States
   Courthouse, courtrooms, or any building housing a court of the United
   States and/or any grounds appurtenant to such building within the
   Eastern District of California. (b) Authorization for Weapon
   Possession. In high security situations, or when the United States
   Marshal otherwise deems it appropriate, the United States Marshal may
   authorize a duly authorized law enforcement officer to carry a weapon
   in the courtroom, provided the law enforcement officer wears an
   identification badge issued by the United States Marshal. Any law
   enforcement officers so authorized to carry weapons within the
   courtroom shall immediately identify themselves to the United States
   Marshal and/or court security officer on duty within the courtroom
   ordered by the United States Marshal. (c) Use of Weapons in Evidence.
   Prior to any weapon being introduced as evidence in a court proceeding,
   said weapon shall first be rendered inoperable to the satisfaction of
   the United States Marshal and appropriately marked as evidence. In all
   cases in which a weapon is to be introduced as evidence, that fact
   shall first be made known to the United States Marshal and/or court
   security officer on duty prior to the introduction of the weapon into
   the courtroom. At that time and place, the weapon shall be inspected by
   the United States Marshal and/or court security officer to ensure that
   it is in fact inoperable. RULE 11-110 SANCTIONS FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH
   RULES Failure of counsel or of a party to comply with these Rules or
   with any order of the Court may be grounds for imposition by the Court
   of any and all sanctions authorized by statute or Rule or within the
   inherent power of the Court. RULE 3-120 SESSIONS OF COURT -
   INTRADISTRICT VENUE (a) Sacramento and Fresno. Court shall be in
   continuous session at Sacramento and Fresno. Sessions of Court may also
   be held at Redding. See 28 U.S.C. §§ 84, 132 et seq. The Court
   maintains libraries in Sacramento and Fresno open to attorneys admitted
   to practice in this Court and to persons appearing in propria persona
   in this Court who may use the libraries in accordance with such General
   Orders as the Court may adopt. Persons using the libraries are directed
   to refrain from requesting legal advice. (b) Commencement of Civil
   Actions. All civil actions and non-criminal legal proceedings of every
   nature and kind cognizable by the United States District Court for the
   Eastern District of California arising in Calaveras, Fresno, Inyo,
   Kern, Kings, Madera, Mariposa, Merced, Stanislaus, Tulare and Tuolumne
   counties shall be commenced in the United States District Court sitting
   in Fresno, California. All civil actions and non-criminal legal
   proceedings of every nature and kind cognizable in the United States
   District Court for the Eastern District of California arising in
   Alpine, Amador, Butte, Colusa, El Dorado, Glenn, Lassen, Modoc, Mono,
   Nevada, Placer, Plumas, Sacramento, San Joaquin, Shasta, Sierra,
   Siskiyou, Solano, Sutter, Tehama, Trinity, Yolo and Yuba counties shall
   be commenced in Sacramento, California. As to criminal actions, see
   L.R. Crim 18-402. (c) Assignment of Actions. All actions will be
   assigned in accordance with the Assignment Plan approved by the Court
   en banc and reproduced as Appendix A to these Rules. (d) Transfer.
   Whenever in any civil action the Court finds upon its own motion,
   motion of any party, or stipulation that an action has not been
   commenced in the proper Court in accordance with this Rule, or for
   other good cause, the Judge may transfer the same to another Court
   within the District. (e) General Duty Judge. The Chief Judge shall,
   from time to time, appoint a General Duty Judge. See L.R. 1-101(14).
   RULE 77-121 THE CLERK OF THE DISTRICT COURT (a)Locations. The Clerk of
   the District Court shall maintain offices at 501 I Street, Sacramento,
   California 95814, where the records of the United States District Court
   sitting in Sacramento shall be kept, and offices at 1130 "O" Street,
   Fresno, California 93721, where the records of the United States
   District Court sitting in Fresno shall be kept. (b)Office Hours. The
   regular office hours of the Clerk at Sacramento and Fresno shall be
   from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. each day except Saturdays, Sundays, legal
   holidays, and such other times so ordered by the Chief Judge. See Fed.
   R. Civ. P. 77. The Clerk may maintain dropboxes at the entrances to the
   United States Courthouses for the receipt of documents when the Clerk's
   Offices are not open. Deposit of documents in such dropboxes in full
   compliance with the posted instructions shall constitute delivery to
   the Clerk within the meaning of L.R. 5-134. (c)Advance Payment of Fees.
   Except as required by law, or otherwise directed by the Court, the
   Clerk shall not file any paper, issue any process, or render any other
   service for which a fee is prescribed by statute or by the Judicial
   Conference of the United States unless the fee is prepaid. See 28
   U.S.C. § 1914 et seq. RULE 63-122 AUTHORITY OF ASSIGNED JUDGE AND
   EMERGENCIES The Judge assigned to the action shall preside over the
   trial and determine all motions or other matters in the action, except
   as otherwise provided in Fed. R. Civ. P. 63 and Fed. R. Crim. P. 25, or
   as otherwise ordered by that Judge, or in cases of emergency. In the
   event of an emergency requiring prompt action, if the assigned Judge is
   unavailable, the matter shall be presented to the Clerk for temporary
   assignment to another available Judge, if necessary. In such instance,
   it shall be the responsibility of counsel presenting the matter to
   provide the Judge to whom the matter is presented with a detailed
   explanation of the necessity for the application's being handled on an
   emergency basis. The matter shall be returned to the calendar of the
   unavailable assigned Judge upon completion of the hearing on the
   emergency application. RULE 83-123 RELATED CASES (a)Definition of
   Related Cases. An action is related to another action within the
   meaning of this Rule when (1)both actions involve the same parties and
   are based on the same or a similar claim; (2)both actions involve the
   same property, transaction or event; (3)both actions involve similar
   questions of fact and the same question of law and their assignment to
   the same Judge or Magistrate Judge is likely to effect a substantial
   savings of judicial effort, either because the same result should
   follow in both actions or otherwise; or (4) for any other reasons, it
   would entail substantial duplication of labor if the actions were heard
   by different Judges or Magistrate Judges. (b)Duties of Counsel. Counsel
   who has reason to believe that an action on file or about to be filed
   is related to another action on file (whether or not dismissed or
   otherwise terminated) shall promptly file in each action and serve on
   all parties in each action a Notice of Related Cases. This notice shall
   set forth the title and number of each possibly related action,
   together with a brief statement of their relationship and the reasons
   why assignment to a single Judge or Magistrate Judge is likely to
   effect a savings of judicial effort and other economies. The Clerk
   shall notify the Judges or Magistrate Judges to whom the actions are
   assigned promptly of such filing. (c)Reassignment. Following the filing
   of a Notice of Related Cases, the Chief Judge or a Judge designated by
   the Chief Judge may, by special order, reassign either case to any
   Judge or Magistrate Judge sitting in the Eastern District of California
   as the situation may dictate. If the Judge to whom the case with the
   lower or lowest number has been assigned determines that assignment of
   the cases to a single Judge is likely to effect a savings of judicial
   effort or other economies, that Judge is authorized to enter an order
   reassigning all higher numbered related cases to himself or herself.
   (d)Refiling. An action may not be dismissed and thereafter refiled for
   the purpose of obtaining a different Judge or Magistrate Judge. If an
   action is dismissed and it, or one essentially the same, is refiled, it
   shall be assigned to the same Judge and Magistrate Judge. It is the
   duty of all counsel appearing therein to bring the facts of the
   refiling to the attention of the Clerk pursuant to L.R. 83-123. See
   L.R. 11-110. (e)Habeas Corpus Petitions. Related habeas corpus
   petitions are governed by L.R. 81-190(d) or L.R. 81-191(f)(5) as the
   case may be. RULE 7-130 GENERAL FORMAT OF PAPERS All documents
   presented for filing or lodging shall be on white, unglazed opaque
   paper of good quality with numbered lines in the left margin, 8-1/2" x
   11" in size, and shall be flat, unfolded (except where necessary for
   presentation of exhibits), firmly bound at the top left corner,
   pre-punched with two (2) holes (approximately 1/4" diameter) centered
   2-3/4" apart, ½" to 5/8" from the top edge of the document, and shall
   comply with all other applicable provisions of these Rules. Matters
   contained thereon shall be presented by typewriting, printing,
   photographic or offset reproduction, or other clearly legible process,
   without erasures or interlining which materially defaces the document,
   and shall appear on one side of each sheet only. Documents shall be
   double-spaced except for the identification of counsel, title of the
   action, category headings, footnotes, quotations, exhibits and
   descriptions of real property. Quotations of more than fifty (50) words
   shall be indented. Each page shall be numbered consecutively at the
   bottom. RULE 7-131 COUNSEL IDENTIFICATION AND SIGNATURES, AND FACSIMILE
   DOCUMENTS (a) Counsel Identification. The name, address, telephone
   number, and the California State Bar membership number of all counsel
   (or, if in propria persona, of the party) and the specific
   identification of each party represented by name and interest in the
   litigation (e.g., plaintiff Smith, defendant Jones) shall appear in the
   upper left-hand corner of the first page of each document presented for
   filing, except that in the instance of multi-party representation
   reference may be made to the signature page for the complete list of
   parties represented. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 11; L.R. 83-180, 83-182; Cal.
   Rules of Court 201(e). (b) Signatures. All pleadings and
   non-evidentiary documents shall be signed by the individual attorney
   for the party presenting them, or by the party involved if that party
   is appearing in propria persona. Affidavits and certifications shall be
   signed by the person executing the document. The name of the person
   signing the document shall be typed underneath the signature. See Fed.
   R. Civ. P. 11. (c) Facsimile Documents. For purposes of this rule, the
   image of the original manual signature appearing on a facsimile (fax)
   copy filed pursuant to this Rule shall constitute an original signature
   for all court purposes. The document, which itself may be in whole or
   in part a fax copy, must be marked "original" prior to submission to
   the Clerk's Office for filing. The originator of the document, or in
   the case of an affidavit or certification, the presenting attorney or
   party, is required to maintain the document containing the original
   manual signature until the conclusion of the case, including any appeal
   and remand after appeal. In the event there are multiple signatories to
   a document, the filing party or attorney shall retain the originally
   signed document(s). The Court may require that the document containing
   the original manual signature be filed. This Rule does not provide for
   documents to be transmitted via fax directly to the Clerk's Office.
   Documents directly faxed to the Clerk or to a chambers of the Court
   will not be filed, lodged, received, returned, or acknowledged. RULE
   7-132 CAPTION AND TITLE Following the counsel identification and
   commencing on the eighth line of the initial page of each document
   (except where additional space is required for identification), there
   shall appear: (1) the title of the Court, (2) the title of the action,
   (3) the file number of the action, followed by the initials of the
   Judge and Magistrate Judge to whom it is currently assigned, (4) a
   title describing the document, (5) immediately below the case number
   and title of the document, a statement of the date, time, and name of
   the Judge or Magistrate Judge for any scheduled hearing, and (6) any
   other matter required by these Rules. RULE 24-133 NOTICE OF CLAIM OF
   UNCONSTITUTIONALITY (a)Notice of Claim of Unconstitutionality of
   Federal Law. If, at any time in an action to which neither the United
   States nor any of its officers, agencies, or employees is a party, any
   party draws in issue the constitutionality of a federal administration
   regulation of general applicability, that party shall immediately file
   a notice with the Court identifying the regulation in issue and setting
   forth in what respects its constitutionality is questioned, and shall
   serve a copy of the notice on the United States Attorney General, on
   the United States Attorney, on the Judge to whom the action has been
   assigned, and on all other parties. If the party required to file and
   serve the notice fails to do so, every other party shall file and serve
   such a notice, provided that as soon as a notice is filed and served,
   all other parties are relieved of this obligation. Cf. 28 U.S.C. §
   2403(a) (requirement re Acts of Congress); Fed. R. Civ. P. 24(c).
   (b)Notice of Claim of Unconstitutionality of State Law. If, at any time
   in an action to which neither a State nor any of its officers,
   agencies, or employees is a party, any party draws in issue the
   constitutionality of any state administrative regulation of general
   applicability, that party shall immediately file a notice with the
   Court identifying the regulation in issue and setting forth in what
   respects its constitutionality is questioned, and shall serve a copy of
   that notice on the Attorney General of the State, on the Judge to whom
   the action has been assigned, and on all other parties. If the party
   required to file and serve such a notice fails to do so, every other
   party shall file and serve such notice, provided that as soon as a
   notice is filed and served, all other parties are relieved of this
   obligation. Cf. 28 U.S.C. § 2403(b) (requirement re state statutes);
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 24(c). RULE 5-134 FILING AND CONTENTS OF DOCUMENTS (a)
   Delivery to the Clerk. Except as expressly authorized in advance by a
   Judge or Magistrate Judge, all documents presented for filing or
   lodging shall be delivered to the Clerk who will, when appropriate,
   deliver the documents to the Judge or Magistrate Judge after docketing.
   Original documents to be filed or lodged shall not be mailed to the
   chambers of a Judge. If a particular document is to be brought to the
   immediate attention of the Judge or Magistrate Judge assigned to the
   action, a copy may be mailed or otherwise delivered to the chambers,
   but the original shall be presented to the Clerk. See Fed. R. Civ. P.
   5; L.R. 77-121(b). All documents delivered to the Clerk for filing or
   lodging in a pending action must be presented to the Clerk at the
   office where the action is pending. Documents proffered for filing in a
   pending action at an incorrect office will be not be accepted. See L.R.
   3-120, 77-121. (b) Filing of Multiple Copies. One additional legible
   conformed copy of all documents to be filed or lodged shall be
   delivered to the Clerk, for the Court's use, except that in actions to
   be heard by a District Court composed of three Judges, three additional
   legible conformed copies of each brief and supporting documents shall
   be delivered to the Clerk. (c) Reference to Parties. If there are more
   than two parties, including intervenors or amici, references to all
   parties shall include the name (which may be abbreviated) of the
   particular party or parties to whom reference is made. (d) Citations.
   Citations of federal cases shall be to the United States Supreme Court
   Reports, Federal Reports, Federal Supplement, or Federal Rules
   Decisions, if so reported, and shall indicate the court and year of
   decision. Citations to federal statutes shall be to the United States
   Code, if so codified. Citations to federal administrative rules shall
   be to the Code of Federal Regulations, if so codified, or to the
   Federal Register, if published therein. Citations of California cases
   shall be to the official California Reports. Citations of other state
   cases shall be to the National Reporter System, showing state and year
   of decision. Other citations may be added. If case, statutory, or
   regulatory authority is relied upon which has not been reported,
   published, or codified in any of the foregoing references, a copy of
   that authority shall be appended to the brief or other document in
   which it is cited. This requirement shall include, but not be limited
   to, the Statutes at Large, the Public Laws of the United States, the
   California Administrative Code, administrative regulations not
   contained in the Code of Federal Regulations or the Federal Register,
   and decisions and other matters published in specialized reporter
   services. (e) Depositions. Prior to or upon the filing of a document
   making reference to a deposition, it shall be the duty of the attorney
   relying on the deposition to ensure that the original of the deposition
   so relied upon has been filed or lodged with the Clerk. See Fed. R.
   Civ. P. 30(f). (f) Tables. Briefs exceeding fifteen (15) pages in
   length shall be accompanied by an indexed table of contents related to
   the headings or subheadings and by an indexed table of statutes, rules,
   ordinances, cases, and other authorities cited. RULE 5-135 SERVICE OF
   DOCUMENTS DURING ACTION (a) Proof of Service. When service of any
   pleading, notice, or other document required to be served is made,
   proof of such service shall be endorsed upon or affixed to the original
   of the document when it is lodged or filed. Except for ex parte
   matters, a document shall not be submitted for filing unless it is
   accompanied by a proof of service. Proof of service shall include the
   date, manner and place of service. (b) Service Upon All Parties. Unless
   a party expressly waives service, copies of all documents submitted to
   the Court shall be served upon all parties to the action, except that
   no service need be made upon parties held in default for failure to
   appear unless the paper involved asserts new or additional claims for
   relief against such defaulting parties. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 5(a). (c)
   Service Upon Attorney. Service of all documents authorized to be served
   in accordance with Fed. R. Civ. P. 5 or Fed. R. Crim. P. 49 shall be
   complete when served upon the attorney for the party, if the party has
   appeared and is represented by an attorney. Where an attorney
   represents multiple parties, service of one copy of such document upon
   said attorney shall constitute service upon all parties represented by
   that attorney, unless the Court otherwise orders. Where multiple
   attorneys represent the same party or parties, service shall be made
   upon all such attorneys, unless the Court otherwise orders. See also
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 4.1. RULE 6-136 CALCULATION OF TIME PERIODS (a)
   Additional Time After Service by Mail. The time period fixed by these
   Local Rules shall be subject to the provisions of Fed. R. Civ. P. 6(e)
   or Fed. R. Crim. P. 45(e), allowing, when authorized by law, additional
   time to do some act or take some proceeding within a prescribed period
   after service of a notice or other paper on the party by mail. Whenever
   in these Local Rules a different time period is prescribed for an act
   depending on whether service is in person or by mail, the Rule shall be
   deemed to include the time period prescribed in Fed. R. Civ. P. 6(e)
   and Fed. R. Crim. P. 45(e), and no additional time shall be allowed for
   service by mail. (b) Computation of Time. The time periods fixed by
   these Local Rules shall be subject to the provisions of Fed. R. Civ. P.
   6(a) or Fed. R. Crim. P. 45(a). References in these Local Rules to
   "court days" are intended to invoke the computation prescribed by Fed.
   R. Civ. P. 6(a) and Fed. R. Crim. P. 45(a). (c) Specific Time
   Provisions. Pursuant to the provisions of Fed. R. Civ. P. 6(d) or Fed.
   R. Crim. P. 45(d), the otherwise applicable time periods fixed by those
   Rules have been lengthened by order of the Court as set forth in these
   Local Rules governing service of notices of motion, affidavits, and
   other documents. (d) Computation of Time in Court Orders. When a court
   order omits to specify whether the days prescribed or allowed are court
   or calendar days, then the provisions of Fed.R.Civ.P.6(a) or
   Fed.R.Crim.P.45(a) shall control to determine the calculation of the
   days prescribed or allowed. RULE 5-137 REDUCTION OF ORDERS TO WRITING -
   SERVICE OF ORDERS (a) Reduction of Orders to Writing. Subject to Fed.
   R. Civ. P. 58, and unless the Court otherwise directs or permits,
   whenever the Court makes an oral order (except intermediate orders in
   the course of a hearing), the prevailing party shall serve upon all
   other parties and lodge forthwith together with sufficient copies for
   all counsel, a proposed written order embodying all provisions of the
   orally announced order. Unless all counsel have approved the order as
   to form, counsel preparing the order shall serve it on all other
   parties and wait five (5) days before lodging the proposed order with
   the Court. The certificate of service attached to the proposed order
   shall reflect the date of service and of filing. Counsel not preparing
   the order shall have five (5) court days after service of a copy of the
   proposed order within which to apply to the Court for correction or
   modification of the proposed order to reflect accurately the ruling of
   the Court or to submit an alternative order. If the proposed order is
   approved by the Court, it shall be signed and filed. See L.R. 6-136.
   (b) Service. Copies of all written orders signed and filed by the
   Court, whether drafted by counsel or by the Court, shall be served
   forthwith by the Clerk on all counsel who have appeared in the action.
   A certificate of service by the Clerk shall accompany the order as
   served and shall be attached to the order as filed. RULE 39-138 FILES
   AND RECORDS - EXHIBITS (a) Custody and Withdrawal. All files and
   records of the Court shall remain in the custody of the Clerk. No file
   and no record, paper, or item belonging to the files of the Court shall
   be taken from the custody of the Clerk without a special order of a
   Judge and a receipt given by the party obtaining it, describing it and
   the date of its receipt, except as otherwise provided by this Rule. (b)
   Sealing of Documents. Except as otherwise provided by statute or rule,
   documents may be sealed only upon written order of a Judge or
   Magistrate Judge. Court orders sealing documents are filed and
   maintained in the public case file and should not reveal the sealed
   information. A duplicate order is attached to the envelope containing
   the sealed documents. The case file shall reflect the date a document
   is ordered unsealed and by whom, and, if a document is resealed, the
   date and by whom. (c) Custody of Exhibits. All exhibits, including
   models and diagrams marked for identification or introduced in
   evidence, upon the hearing of any action or motion, shall be delivered
   to the Clerk, who shall keep custody of the same, except as otherwise
   ordered by the Court. All exhibits received in evidence that are in the
   nature of narcotic drugs, legal or counterfeit money, firearms or
   contraband of any kind shall be entrusted to the custody of the
   arresting or investigative agency of the government pending disposition
   of the action and for any appeal period thereafter. (d) Withdrawal of
   Civil Exhibits. In a civil action, after judgment has become final or
   upon the filing of a stipulation of the parties waiving the right of
   appeal, rehearing and a new trial, any party may withdraw any
   evidentiary exhibit originally produced by that party unless some other
   party or person files with the Clerk and serves on all other parties
   prior notice of a claim or entitlement to the exhibit, in which case
   the Clerk shall not deliver the exhibit, except with the written
   consent of all claimants, until the Court has determined the identity
   of the person entitled thereto. (e) Withdrawal of Criminal Exhibits.
   Absent a stipulation of all parties, see L.R. 83- 141, the Clerk shall
   maintain all exhibits during the pendency of the criminal trial and all
   appeals unless otherwise provided in these Rules. Following the
   spreading of mandate, the Clerk shall notify all parties of the
   availability of the exhibit for repossession by the party offering the
   exhibit in the absence of objection by another party. If no objection
   is lodged within thirty (30) days, the Clerk may return the exhibit to
   the party offering it on request. If no objection is lodged and the
   party offering the exhibit fails to recover it within ninety (90) days,
   the Clerk shall dispose of the exhibit. (f) Disposition of Unclaimed
   Exhibits. If exhibits are not withdrawn within sixty (60) days after
   notice to the parties to claim the same, the Clerk may dispose of them
   as the Clerk may deem fit. See L.R. 6-136. (g) Substitution of Copies.
   Unless there be some specific reason why original exhibits should be
   retained, the assigned Judge or Magistrate Judge may, upon stipulation
   or application, order them returned to the party to whom they belong
   upon the filing of a copy certified by the Clerk or approved by counsel
   for all parties concerned. RULE 43-140 AFFIDAVITS (a) Requirements. An
   affidavit, see L.R. 1-101(2), submitted in support of any motion shall
   (1) identify the affiant, the party or parties on whose behalf it is
   submitted, and the motion to which it pertains, see L.R. 7-132; (2) be
   served on all other parties and filed with the motion, opposition or
   reply to which it relates, unless accompanied by an affidavit of
   counsel purporting to show good cause for the separate filing thereof;
   and (3) identify and attach documents and exhibits offered in support
   of or in opposition to the motion, unless such documents and exhibits
   are already in the record and specifically referred to in the motion or
   opposition. (b) Affidavits Referencing Depositions. When deposition
   testimony is referenced in or appended to an affidavit, the party
   filing the affidavit shall ensure that the original of the deposition
   so relied upon has been filed or lodged with the Clerk. See Fed. R.
   Civ. P. 30(f). RULE 83-141 STIPULATIONS (a) Form. Except stipulations
   entered into during the course of a deposition and set forth in the
   transcript thereof, stipulations shall be (1) in writing, signed by all
   counsel or parties in propria persona who have appeared in the action
   and are affected by the stipulation, except as otherwise required by
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 41(a)(1), and filed, or (2) made in open court and
   noted by the courtroom deputy clerk upon the minutes or by the court
   reporter in the notes, or (3) recited in a pretrial or other court
   order. Stipulations not in conformity with these requirements will not
   be recognized unless necessary to prevent manifest injustice. (b)
   Order. Stipulations are not effective unless approved by the Court,
   except as otherwise provided in these Rules or in the Federal Rules of
   Civil, Criminal, or Appellate Procedure. A proposed order shall be
   submitted with a written stipulation and may consist of an endorsement
   on the stipulation of the words, "IT IS SO ORDERED," with spaces
   designated for the date and signature of the Judge or Magistrate Judge.
   RULE 6-142 EXTENDING AND SHORTENING TIME (a) Extensions on Stipulation.
   Unless the filing date has been set by order of the Court, an initial
   stipulation extending time for no more than thirty (30) days to respond
   to a complaint, cross-claim or counterclaim, or to respond to
   interrogatories, requests for admissions, or requests for production of
   documents may be filed without approval of the Court if the stipulation
   is signed on behalf of all parties who have appeared in the action and
   are affected by the stipulation. All other extensions of time must be
   approved by the Court. No open extensions of time by stipulation of the
   parties will be recognized. (b) Contents of Application for Extension.
   All applications to the Court for extensions of time shall set forth
   the total period of extensions already obtained by the parties as to
   the particular matters for which the extension is sought. (c) Initial
   Ex Parte Extension. The Court may, in its discretion, grant an initial
   extension ex parte upon the affidavit of counsel that a stipulation
   extending time cannot reasonably be obtained, explaining the reasons
   why such stipulation cannot be obtained and the reasons why the
   extension is necessary. Except for one such initial extension, ex parte
   applications for extension of time will not ordinarily be granted. (d)
   Time for Requesting Extensions. Counsel shall seek to obtain a
   necessary extension from the Court or from other counsel or parties in
   an action as soon as the need for an extension becomes apparent.
   Request for Court-approved extensions brought on the required filing
   date for the pleading or other document are looked upon with disfavor.
   (e) Shortening Time. Applications to shorten time shall set forth by
   affidavit of counsel the circumstances claimed to justify the issuance
   of an order shortening time. Ex parte applications to shorten time will
   not be granted except upon affidavit of counsel showing a satisfactory
   explanation for the need for the issuance of such an order and for the
   failure of counsel to obtain a stipulation for the issuance of such an
   order from other counsel or parties in the action. Stipulations for the
   issuance of an order shortening time require the approval of the Judge
   or Magistrate Judge on whose calendar the matter is to be heard before
   such stipulations will be given effect. Any proposed order shortening
   time shall include blanks for the Court to designate a time and date
   for the hearing and for the filing of any response to the motion. RULE
   83-143 APPEALS FROM BANKRUPTCY COURT (a) Motion for Leave to Appeal
   from Bankruptcy Court. All motions for leave to file an interlocutory
   appeal from the Bankruptcy Court to the District Court shall comply
   with Bankruptcy Rule 8003(a) and be addressed to the District Court.
   Compliance with Rule 8003(a)(3) requires a concise statement of (1) why
   the appeal is meritorious, and (2) why interlocutory review is
   appropriate. The appropriateness of interlocutory appeal should
   address: (a) whether further proceedings in the Bankruptcy Court will
   affect the scope of the order to be reviewed; (b) whether the order
   determines and seriously affects substantive rights; and (c) whether
   the denial of immediate review will cause irreparable harm to
   appellant. (b) Determination of Reviewability. If a notice of appeal is
   filed from a judgment, order or decree of the Bankruptcy Court without
   a motion for leave to appeal, the District Court may partially remand
   the matter to the Bankruptcy Court for a recommendation concerning the
   finality of the subject judgment, order or decree. If the Bankruptcy
   Court advises the District Court that the subject judgment, order or
   decree is not final but interlocutory, the Bankruptcy Court shall make
   a recommendation to the District Court whether leave to appeal should
   be granted. In aid of the Bankruptcy Court's determination on such
   recommendations, the Bankruptcy Court may order the parties to the
   appeal to file briefs in support of finality or leave. RULE 67-150
   DEPOSITS OF REGISTRY FUNDS (a) Deposits as of Right. Leave of court is
   hereby granted for the making of deposits into the registry of the
   Court in all interpleader actions and in all instances in which money
   is deposited in lieu of filing a bond and all deposits by a receiver
   appointed by order of the Court under L.R. 66-232. In these
   circumstances, a party is not required to seek specific leave of court
   prior to making the deposit. See generally 18 U.S.C. § 3141 et seq.;
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 67; Fed. R. Crim. P. 40, 42, 46. (b) Other Deposits. In
   all other circumstances not encompassed within subsection (a), specific
   leave of Court is required prior to making a deposit into the registry
   of the Court. Leave of Court may be requested by stipulation of all
   parties who have appeared or by motion set on the regular calendar of
   the assigned Magistrate Judge in Sacramento or Fresno not less than
   three (3) court days from the date of filing and personal service
   thereof or not less than six (6) court days from the date of filing and
   mailed service thereof. No additional time for service by mail is
   permitted. See L.R. 6-136(a). A copy of any proposed order shall be
   delivered simultaneously to the Clerk or Chief Deputy Clerk for
   inspection pursuant to subsection (e) of this Rule. See L.R.
   72-302(c)(6). (c) Routine Placement of Deposit. In any instance in
   which money is deposited into the registry of the Court and no specific
   order is given as to the form or placement of the deposit, the deposit
   shall be placed in an interest-bearing account at such financial
   institutions as the Court may, by General Order, have designated as
   qualifying for the making of such deposits of registry funds and shall
   be deposited into one account unless the order specifically addresses
   that issue. All matters relating to the creation and administration of
   such account or accounts shall be governed by General Order. (d)
   Special Placement of Deposit. In any action in which a deposit is made
   into the registry of the Court, a depositor or party may request that
   the money be placed in a particular type of account or in a particular
   financial institution or that other particular provisions govern the
   placement of the deposit. Such request may be made in accordance with
   the provisions of subsection (b) of this Rule. (e) Order for Deposit -
   Interest-Bearing Account. Whenever a party seeks a court order for
   money to be deposited by the Clerk in an interest-bearing account,
   whether routine or special placement, the party shall personally
   deliver the order to the Clerk or Chief Deputy Clerk who will inspect
   the proposed order for proper form and content and compliance with the
   Rule prior to signature by the Judge or Magistrate Judge for whom the
   order is prepared. Such orders shall contain the following provision:
   "Approved as to Form , Clerk, U.S. District Court." (f) Order Directing
   Investment of Funds by Clerk. Any order obtained by a party or parties
   in an action that directs the Clerk to invest funds deposited in the
   registry of the Court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2041 into an
   interest-bearing account or instrument shall include the following: (1)
   the amount to be invested; (2) the name of the depository approved by
   the Treasurer of the United States as a depository in which funds may
   be deposited; and (3) a designation of the type of account or
   instrument in which the funds shall be invested. Upon approval by the
   Court of an order for the deposit of funds into an interest- bearing
   account, it shall be the further responsibility of counsel presenting
   the order to deliver a signed copy to the Clerk appointed pursuant to
   28 U.S.C. § 751 or the Chief Deputy Clerk personally. Absent such
   personal service, the Clerk is relieved of any personal liability
   relating to compliance with the order. (g) Order for Disbursement of
   Registry Funds. At such time as registry funds are to be disbursed, an
   Order for Disbursement shall be presented to the Judge or Magistrate
   Judge before whom the action is pending for approval and signature. The
   order shall contain specific language "directing the Clerk to disburse
   funds" to the parties or otherwise as specifically stated within the
   order. (h) Registry Fund Fees. Beginning with deposits of funds with
   the Court on December 1, 1990, all funds invested -- including criminal
   bond money deposited at interest -- will be assessed a registry fee
   according to the schedule established by the Administrative Office of
   the United States Courts. A copy of the current schedule is available
   from the Clerk on request. RULE 65.1-151 SECURITY (a) Scope of Rule.
   Whenever a security, bond, or undertaking is required by federal
   statute, the Federal Rules of Civil, Criminal or Appellate Procedure,
   or by order of the Court, and the form or amount thereof is not
   otherwise specified by statute, rule, or order, the amount and form
   shall be as provided by this Local Rule. See 18 U.S.C. § 3141 et seq.,
   31 U.S.C. § 9301 et seq.; Fed. R. App. P. 7, 8; Fed. R. Civ. P. 65.1;
   Fed. R. Crim. P. 40, 42, 46. (b) Security for Costs. On its own motion
   or on motion of a party, the Court may at any time order a party to
   give security, bond or undertaking in such amount as the Court may
   determine to be appropriate. The provisions of Title 3A, part 2, of the
   California Code of Civil Procedure, relating to vexatious litigants,
   are hereby adopted as a procedural rule of this Court on the basis of
   which the Court may order the giving of security, bond or undertaking,
   although the power of the Court shall not be limited thereby. (c) Bond
   for Writ of Attachment. See Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 481.010 et seq. (d)
   Supersedeas Bond. When required, a supersedeas bond shall be 125
   percent of the amount of the judgment unless the Court otherwise
   orders. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 62. (e) Form of Bond. A security, bond or
   undertaking shall be given, signed and acknowledged by the party
   offering it and by that party's surety. Every security, bond,
   undertaking or deposit instrument shall state the conditions of the
   obligation and shall contain a provision expressly subjecting it to all
   applicable federal statutes and rules. (f) Corporate Surety. No
   security, bond or undertaking with corporate surety shall be accepted
   unless the corporate surety is in compliance with the provisions of 31
   U.S.C. §§ 9304-06, and there is, either attached to the face of the
   security, bond or undertaking or on file with the Clerk, a duly
   authenticated power of attorney appointing the agents or officers
   executing such obligation to act on behalf of the corporate surety. (g)
   Personal Surety. No security, bond or undertaking with personal surety
   in a civil matter shall be accepted unless it is accompanied by
   affidavits in the form prescribed by sections 995.510 and 995.520 of
   the California Code of Civil Procedure. No Clerk, Marshal or deputy
   marshal, member of the Bar, or other officer or employee of the Court
   will be accepted as surety in this Court, absent express Court
   approval. The Court may, in its discretion, require that more than one
   personal surety be obligated on the security, bond or undertaking. (h)
   Cash, Negotiable Bonds of the United States and Property Bonds. In lieu
   of corporate or personal surety, a party may deposit with the Clerk the
   required amount of lawful money or negotiable bonds of the United
   States accompanied by a written instrument, to be approved by the
   Court, executed and acknowledged by the party, setting forth the
   conditions upon which the deposit is made, and the fact that the Clerk
   may collect or sell the obligations and apply the proceeds, or the cash
   deposited, in the case of default as provided in the bond. Where the
   true owner is other than the party making the deposit, the instrument
   shall so state and shall be executed and acknowledged by the true
   owner. Upon exoneration of the deposit, it shall be returned by the
   Clerk to the depositor or, if the depositor is other than the true
   owner, then to the latter. Any deposit of money or documents evidencing
   ownership of property shall be accompanied by an affidavit (accompanied
   by preliminary title report, litigation guarantee, or abstract from a
   title company, in the case of real property), that the property is
   unencumbered, or if encumbered, is encumbered in an amount specified,
   and that the property is of a specified value (assessed value, in the
   case of real property). See 31 U.S.C. § 9303; L.R. 67-150. If personal
   property is provided as security, it shall be accompanied by a security
   agreement and a financing statement pertaining to said property,
   executed in conformity with the requirements of the California
   Commercial Code. If real property is provided as security, a trust deed
   naming the Clerk as beneficiary and describing said property shall be
   deposited with the Clerk. (i) Submission to Jurisdiction: Agent for
   Service of Process. Notwithstanding any provision of a security
   agreement to the contrary, all sureties or depositors of security
   subject themselves to the jurisdiction of this Court, irrevocably
   appoint the Clerk as their agent on whom any papers affecting their
   liability may be served, and consent that their liability shall be
   joint and several, that judgment may be entered against them in
   accordance with this obligation simultaneously with judgment against
   their principals, and that execution may therefore issue against their
   property. Notwithstanding the appointment of the Clerk as agent for
   service of process, any person seeking judgment against any surety or
   depositor shall make a good faith effort to give actual notice to the
   surety or depositor of all actions or motions by which judgment is
   sought against the surety or depositor. (j) Further Security or
   Justification of Personal Sureties. Upon reasonable notice to the party
   presenting the security, any other party for whose benefit it is
   presented may apply to the Court at any time for further or different
   security or for an order requiring personal sureties to establish the
   facts supporting their affidavits under sections 995.510 and 995.520 of
   the California Code of Civil Procedure. RULE 16-160 NOTICE OF
   SETTLEMENT OR OTHER DISPOSITION (a) Notice. When an action has been
   settled or otherwise disposed of, or when any motion seeking general or
   interim relief has been resolved, whether by settlement conference or
   out of Court, and whether the action is pending in the District Court
   or is before an appellate court, it is the duty of counsel to inform
   the courtroom deputy clerk and the assigned Court's chambers
   immediately. See L.R. 16-272. (b) Dispositional Documents. Upon such
   notification of disposition or resolution of an action or motion, the
   Court shall thereupon fix a date upon which the documents disposing of
   the action or motion must be filed, which date shall not be more than
   twenty (20) calendar days from the date of said notification, absent
   good cause. The Court may, on good cause shown, extend the time for
   filing the dispositional papers. A failure to file dispositional papers
   on the date prescribed by the Court may be grounds for sanctions. See
   L.R. 16-272. RULE 47-161 GRAND AND PETIT TRIAL JURORS The Plan for the
   Random Selection of Grand and Petit Trial Jurors, approved by this
   Court and the reviewing panel pursuant to the Jury Selection and
   Service Act of 1968 (Public Law 90-274) and filed in the Office of the
   Clerk governs the management of the jury selection process. RULE 47-162
   EXAMINATION AND CHALLENGES OF TRIAL JURY - CIVIL AND CRIMINAL (a)
   Examination of Jurors. Examination of prospective jurors shall be by
   the Court subject to supplementation by counsel as provided by Fed. R.
   Civ. P. 47 and Fed. R. Crim. P. 24. Not less than three (3) days before
   commencement of the trial, counsel shall file two (2) copies of, and
   serve on all other counsel, any requested questions for voir dire
   examination touching upon unique or unusual aspects of the action.
   These requests may be reasonably supplemented by oral requests during
   voir dire examination to remedy omissions, to clarify, or to pursue
   lines of inquiry suggested by answers. (b) Procedure. Counsel shall
   consult with the courtroom deputy clerk of the assigned trial Judge for
   procedures utilized by that Judge in the selection of a jury and in the
   exercise of peremptory challenges. See 28 U.S.C. § 1870; Fed. R. Civ.
   P. 47(b). RULE 48-162 IMPANELMENT OF TRIAL JURY - CIVIL AND CRIMINAL
   (a) Number of Jurors. In all instances in which a jury is demanded in
   civil actions, trial of the action shall be before a jury consisting of
   not fewer than six and not more than twelve members. See Fed. R. Civ.
   P. 48. Unless waived by the defendant in writing and in the presence of
   the Court, all criminal trials shall be before a jury consisting of
   twelve members, plus such alternates as may be impaneled. (b)
   Procedure. Counsel shall consult with the courtroom deputy clerk of the
   assigned trial Judge for procedures utilized by that Judge in the
   impanelment of a jury. RULE 51-163 JURY INSTRUCTIONS AND VERDICTS -
   CIVIL AND CRIMINAL ACTIONS (a) Lodging. Unless the Court otherwise
   orders or permits, requested jury instructions in civil and criminal
   actions shall be lodged with the Clerk and copies served on all parties
   at the opening of the trial. Instructions thereafter presented may be
   deemed not to have been properly requested unless the necessity for the
   request arose in the course of trial and could not reasonably have been
   anticipated prior to trial from the pleadings, discovery or nature of
   the action and the request is presented as promptly as possible. See
   Fed. R. Civ. P. 51; Fed. R. Crim. P. 30. (b) Form and Number. Three (3)
   copies of the instructions shall be lodged on 8-1/2" x 11" paper. The
   first two (2) copies (file copy and chamber's copy) shall be identical
   and shall contain each instruction written on a separate page, numbered
   and identified as to the party presenting it. Each instruction shall
   cite the decision, statute, ordinance, regulation or other authority
   supporting the proposition stated in the instruction. The third copy
   (jury copy) shall be lodged with a cover sheet. The cover sheet shall
   contain the appropriate caption (title, Court and cause) and an
   identification of the party presenting said instructions. The
   instructions submitted for jury use shall be each written on a separate
   page and shall be in the same order as the file copy instructions. As
   these instructions may be duplicated and passed along to the jury, the
   individual instruction shall be unnumbered and unidentified as to the
   party presenting them and shall contain no citation to the authority
   supporting the proposition stated in the instruction. (c) Content. Each
   requested instruction shall be (as far as possible) free of legal
   jargon, understandable, concise, impartial, and free from argument. All
   requested instructions on a single subject shall be grouped together
   when submitted to the Court. All instructions intended as alternates
   shall be so designated. (d) Standard Instructions. When the
   instructions are derived from the Ninth Circuit Pattern Jury
   Instructions, California Jury Instructions-Civil (BAJI), California
   Jury Instructions-Criminal (CALJIC) or Federal Jury Practice and
   Instructions (Civil and Criminal, Devitt & Blackmar), or other source
   of standard instructions, the source shall be from the latest edition
   provided. If a standard instruction is altered by omissions, additions,
   or modifications by counsel, the modification shall be specifically
   noted and explained on the file copy and the chamber's copy of the
   instructions. (e) Verdict and Special Interrogatories. The jury
   instructions shall be accompanied by a form or forms of verdict.
   Requests for special verdicts or interrogatories to be answered in
   connection with a general verdict shall also accompany the
   instructions. (f) Conference - Objections. The Court will set a time
   for a conference with counsel for the purpose of settling instructions.
   Counsel shall be prepared at that time to object to any instructions
   and to support any objection with citation to authority. Upon the
   settling of the instructions, and prior to counsel's final argument to
   the jury, the Court will hold a hearing on the record and outside the
   presence of the jury for the purpose of permitting counsel to voice any
   objections concerning the instructions. After counsel have argued and
   the Court has instructed, the Court, pursuant to Fed. R. Civ. P. 51 or
   Fed. R. Crim. P. 30, will inquire as to whether counsel have any
   objections to the instructions as read. Counsel need not restate the
   objections placed on the record at the hearing provided for that
   purpose. RULE 80-170 COURT REPORTERS AND COURT RECORDERS Official
   reporting in this Court is governed by 28 U.S.C. § 753 and by such fee
   schedules and regulations promulgated by the Administrative Office of
   the United States Courts, General Orders, or other regulations as may
   from time to time be filed with the Clerk. Copies of such documents may
   be obtained from the Clerk. Each reporter shall be responsible for
   maintaining all records of reported proceedings before the Judge or
   Magistrate Judge to whom the reporter is assigned. When court
   proceedings are tape recorded, the official court recorder shall be
   responsible for maintaining the tape recordings. RULE 83-171
   PUBLICATION There is no official newspaper for the Court. In each
   instance in which publication of any document, notice or other matter
   is required or permitted, the Court shall designate by order the
   appropriate newspaper or other vehicle for publication. In seeking such
   designation, counsel shall file a written application for such an order
   which shall propose the place and manner of publication, setting forth
   such information as the language to be published, the frequency of
   publication, the reasons underlying selection of the proposed vehicle
   of publication, and all other relevant matters. A copy of such
   application and supporting documents shall be served on all other
   parties who have previously appeared in the action. RULE 83-173
   PHOTOGRAPHING, RECORDING OR BROADCASTING OF JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS (a)
   Prohibitions Imposed. All forms, means, and manner of taking
   photographs, tape recordings, broadcasting, or televising are
   prohibited in all courtrooms and the corridors adjacent thereto in the
   United States Courthouse Buildings during the course of, or in
   connection with, any judicial proceedings, whether the Court is
   actually in session or not. (b) Permissible Reproduction. This Rule
   shall not prohibit recordings by a court reporter; provided, however,
   no court reporter or other person shall use or permit to be used any
   part of any recording of a Court proceeding on, or in connection with,
   any radio or television broadcast of any kind. The Court may, in
   appropriate circumstances, permit photographs to be taken or recordings
   to be made under such conditions as may be imposed. RULE 83-180
   ATTORNEYS (a) Admission to the Bar of this Court. Admission to and
   continuing membership in the Bar of this Court are limited to attorneys
   who are active members in good standing of the State Bar of California.
   Each applicant for admission shall present to the Clerk an affidavit
   petitioning for admission, stating both residence and office addresses,
   the Courts in which the applicant has been admitted to practice, the
   respective dates of admissions to those Courts, whether the applicant
   is active and in good standing in each, and whether the applicant has
   been or is being subjected to any disciplinary proceedings. Forms will
   be furnished by the Clerk. The petition shall be accompanied by
   satisfactory proof that the applicant is an active member of the State
   Bar in California and shall include the State Bar number. Upon
   qualification the applicant may be admitted, upon oral motion or
   without appearing, by signing the prescribed oath and paying the
   prescribed fee, together with any required assessment, which the Clerk
   shall place as directed by law with any excess credited to the Court's
   Nonappropriated Fund. (b) Practice in this Court. Except as herein
   otherwise provided, only members of the Bar of this Court shall
   practice in this Court. (1) Attorneys for the United States. An
   attorney who is not eligible for admission under subsection (a), but
   who is a member in good standing of and eligible to practice before,
   the Bar of any United States Court or of the highest Court of any
   State, or of any Territory or Insular Possession of the United States,
   may practice in this Court in any matter in which the attorney is
   employed or retained by the United States or its agencies. Attorneys so
   permitted to practice in this Court are subject to the jurisdiction of
   this Court with respect to their conduct to the same extent as members
   of the Bar of this Court. (2) Pro Hac Vice. An attorney who is a member
   in good standing of, and eligible to practice before, the Bar of any
   United States Court or of the highest Court of any State, or of any
   Territory or Insular Possession of the United States, and who has been
   retained to appear in this Court may, upon written application and in
   the discretion of the Court, be permitted to appear and participate in
   a particular case. Unless authorized by the Constitution of the United
   States or an Act of Congress, an attorney is not eligible to practice
   pursuant to this subsection (b)(2) if any one or more of the following
   apply: (i) the attorney resides in California, (ii) the attorney is
   regularly employed in California, or (iii) the attorney is regularly
   engaged in professional activities in California. The pro hac vice
   application shall be presented to the Clerk and shall state under
   penalty of perjury (i) the attorney's residence and office address,
   (ii) by what Courts the attorney has been admitted to practice and the
   dates of admissions, (iii) that the attorney is in good standing and
   eligible to practice in those Courts, (iv) that the attorney is not
   currently suspended or disbarred in any Court, and (v) if the attorney
   has concurrently or within the year preceding the current application
   made any other pro hac vice applications to this Court, the title and
   number of each action in which such application was made, the date of
   each application, and whether each application was granted. The
   attorney shall also designate in the application a member of the Bar of
   this Court with whom the Court and opposing counsel may readily
   communicate regarding that attorney's conduct of the action and upon
   whom papers shall also be served. The attorney shall submit with such
   application the name, address, telephone number and written consent of
   such designee. The pro hac vice application shall also be accompanied
   by payment to the Clerk of any prescribed fee, together with any
   required assessment which the Clerk shall place as directed by law with
   any excess credited to the Court's Nonappropriated Fund. If the pro hac
   vice application is denied, the Court may refund any or all of the fee
   or assessment paid by the attorney. If the application is granted, the
   attorney is subject to the jurisdiction of the Court with respect to
   conduct to the same extent as a member of the Bar of this Court. (3)
   Certified Students. See L.R. 83-181. (4) Designated Officers, Agents or
   Employees. (A) An officer, agent or employee of a federal agency or
   department may practice before the Magistrate Judges on criminal
   matters in this Court, whether or not that officer, agent or employee
   is an attorney, if that officer, agent or employee: (i) has been
   assigned by the employing federal agency or department to appear as a
   prosecutor on its behalf, (ii) has received four or more hours training
   from the United States Attorney's Office in the preceding twelve
   months, (iii) has filed a designation in accordance with subdivision
   (B) of this Rule, and (iv) is supervised by the United States
   Attorney's Office. Supervision by the United States Attorney's Office
   means that employees of that Office are available to answer questions
   of any such officer, agent, or employee. (B) Designations shall be
   filed on a form provided by the Clerk of the Court which shall include
   a verification that the officer, agent, or employee has satisfied the
   requirements of this Rule. A designation is effective for twelve
   months. The officer, agent, or employee shall file the designation
   either with the Clerk of the Court in Fresno, if the officer, agent, or
   employee anticipates appearing only before Magistrate Judges at
   locations in the counties specifically enumerated in L.R. 3-120(b), or
   with the Clerk of the Court in Sacramento in all other circumstances.
   After filing the designation with the Clerk of the Court in any
   calendar year, the officer, agent, or employee shall not appear before
   any particular Magistrate Judge without providing a copy of the
   designation to that Magistrate Judge. (C) Officers, agents and
   employees so permitted to practice in this Court are subject to the
   jurisdiction of this Court with respect to their conduct to the same
   extent as members of the Bar of this Court. (c) Notice of Change in
   Status. An attorney who is a member of the Bar of this Court or who has
   been permitted to practice in this Court under subsection (b) shall
   promptly notify the Court of any change in status in any other
   jurisdiction which would make the attorney ineligible for membership in
   the Bar of this Court or ineligible to practice in this Court. In the
   event an attorney appearing in this Court under subsection (b) is no
   longer eligible to practice in all other jurisdictions by reason of
   suspension for nonpayment of fees or enrollment as an inactive member,
   the attorney shall forthwith be suspended from practice before this
   Court without any order of Court until becoming eligible to practice in
   another jurisdiction. (d) Penalty for Unauthorized Practice. The Court
   may order any person who practices before it in violation of this Rule
   to pay an appropriate penalty that the Clerk shall credit to the
   Court's Nonappropriated Fund. Payment of such sum shall be an
   additional condition of admission or reinstatement to the Bar of this
   Court or to practice in this Court. (e) Standards of Professional
   Conduct. Every member of the Bar of this Court, and any attorney
   permitted to practice in this Court under subsection (b) shall become
   familiar with and comply with the standards of professional conduct
   required of members of the State Bar of California and contained in the
   State Bar Act, the Rules of Professional Conduct of the State Bar of
   California and decisions of any Court applicable thereto, which are
   hereby adopted as standards of professional conduct in this Court. In
   the absence of an applicable standard therein, the Model Code of
   Professional Responsibility of the American Bar Association may be
   considered guidance. No attorney admitted to practice before this Court
   shall engage in any conduct which degrades or impugns the integrity of
   the Court or in any manner interferes with the administration of
   justice. RULE 83-181 CERTIFIED STUDENTS (a) Definitions. (1) "Certified
   Student" means a law student who has been certified by the Clerk
   pursuant to this Rule.
