http://ymp.gov/money/index.htm

                            Privacy & Security Notice

   U.S. Department of Energy Money Matters navigation
   Money matters for the Yucca Mountain Project

   Search the Yucca Mountain Project Web site
   About the Yucca Mountain Project
   Timeline/Milestones for the Yucca Mountain Project
   Money Matters for the Yucca Mountain Project
   How Can I Learn More about the Yucca Mountain Project
   Tour Yucca Mountain
   Environmental Impact Statement for Yucca Mountain
   Technical Library of Yucca Mountain documents
   Related Links to the Yucca Mountain Project
   Yucca Mountain Project Web site Index
   Yucca Mountain Project Home Page

   Customers who use nuclear power pay for the disposal of spent fuel. The
   federal government collects a fee of one mil (one-tenth of a cent) per
     kilowatt-hour of nuclear-generated electricity from utilities. This
   money goes into the Nuclear Waste Fund. In addition, Congress makes an
    annual appropriation from the General Fund of the Treasury to pay for
          disposal of defense-related high-level radioactive waste.

   The Nuclear Waste Fund and the annual appropriation by Congress pay for
    the U.S. nuclear waste management program. Department of Energy, the
    state of Nevada, and local governments that could be affected by the
   potential repository receive money from the Nuclear Waste Fund through
   congressional appropriations. The General Accounting Office, an arm of
     the US Congress, is required by the Act to conduct annual audits of
       Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management. Additionally,
    financial audits are conducted annually by a public accounting firm.



     Additional Information:
   check mark Current budget allocation      check mark  OCRWM funding
   check mark  How much has been spent       check mark  Sources of Program
                                             funding .pdf
   check mark Budget Distribution Comparison check mark FY 2000 Year-end
                                             Report .pdf

                                   divider line

             OCRWM | YMP Home | Search | About | What's New | Timeline
         Money | Learn | Tour | EIS | Library | Links | Index | Privacy |
                                      Contact
