http://www.sh.nmfs.gov/library.htm



   HOME

   Research

   Library

   Other Sites:

   NOAA

   NMFS

   NMFS Centers:

   Northeast
   Southeast
   Southwest
   Northwest
   Alaska

                [clearpixel.gif]
                                 Banner

                [clearpixel.gif]

   Search

   Services

   Holdings & Special Collections

   Tides

   LIONEL A. WALFORD LIBRARY
    U.S. DEPT. OF COMMERCE, NOAA
    NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE
    NORTHEAST FISHERIES SCIENCE CENTER
    JAMES J. HOWARD MARINE SCIENCES LABORATORY
    AT SANDY HOOK
    HIGHLANDS, NJ 07732

   NOAA Library

   Woods Hole Library

   Fisheries Questions?

   Fish Facts

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

   The Lionel A. Walford Library is part of the U.S. Dept. of Commerce,
   NOAA, National Marine Fisheries Service, Northeast Fisheries Science
   Center system of information services. The Library was established in
   1961 with the founding of the Sandy Hook Marine Laboratory. It is a
   member of the largest library network in the nation, FEDLINK, (which is
   operated by the Library of Congress) as well as the NOAA Library
   Network consisting of 33 NOAA libraries, 18 of which are within the
   National Marine Fisheries Service. The Walford Library is a charter
   member in the Central Jersey Regional Library Cooperative, one of six
   regions in the NJ Library Network, a state-wide system for networking
   and resource sharing. Lionel Walford organized the laboratory as a
   center of game and sportfishing research and formed it into one of the
   world's foremost marine environmental research centers. The original
   library collection was comprised of Dr. Walford's own donated books and
   personal papers.

   In 1985 the marine laboratory suffered a tragic loss when fire
   destroyed one of its two main buildings which housed laboratories and
   the entire holdings of the Walford Library. Since then the library has
   received donations from around the world, from other libraries and from
   the scientific community at large. About 90% of the new collection was
   received through donation.

   While intended for use primarily for the staff of the Howard
   Laboratory, the Walford Library is open to others as a reference, but
   not a lending (unless through interlibrary loan arrangements),
   institution. It is used by environmental groups, state and local
   agencies, commercial and recreational fishermen, fishing industry
   personnel, writers of popular literature on marine life and those
   affiliated with our cooperating agencies.

   SERVICES
   Interlibrary Loan: Material not available in the Walford Library may be
   borrowed from other libraries, and we reciprocate by lending to other
   institutions.
   Reference and Literature Searches: The Library has access to many
   on-line databases and has the Aquatic Sciences and Fisheries Abstracts
   (ASFA)* in CD-ROM format from 1978 to the present. The library staff
   will provide reference and search services upon request.
   *NOAA employees have access to these abstracts.
   NOAA Central Library

   SEARCH
    Staff Publications | Theses&Dissertations
    Search NOAA Fisheries

   TIDES
       Sandy Hook
       New York
       US Tides
       Tides Online

   DESCRIPTION OF HOLDINGS AND SPECIAL COLLECTIONS:
   The subject specializations of the collection are in the marine
   sciences, oceanography, ichthyology, marine environmental matters and
   pollution, and marine ecology. Principal materials are serials,
   specialized monographs, theses and dissertations, special works not
   formally published, reference materials, materials in other languages
   and maps and charts.

   Serials: The library has holdings of approximately 1,200 titles in
   marine science, fishery ecology, chemistry, microbiology and
   environmental concerns. Serials are bound, in paper copy or in
   microform.

   Abstracts and Indexes: In addition to the electronic means of
   literature searches, the library maintains the following major indexes
   in hard copy, which are particularly useful for covering time periods
   not available through electronic means:
       Aquatic Sciences and Fisheries Abstracts
       Biological Abstracts
       Commercial Fisheries Abstracts
       Fisheries Review
       Current Contents
       Indexes to Government Fishery Publication, 1871-1985
       Water Resources Abstracts
       FAO Current Bibliography
       Zoological Record, Pisces Section

   Charts and Maps: This collection contains nautical, bathymetric and
   topographic charts, maps and atlases, tide and current tables, and
   climatological data of the U.S. from 1914.

   Pamphlet File: This is a ready-reference collection of popular material
   and ephemera on approximately 300 subjects such as seafood products,
   ocean dumping, climate and fisheries, beach erosion, artificial reefs,
   shipwrecks, etc. The material must be used in the library.

   Rare Book Collection: The Library has a collectionof older materials,
   including some of the major expeditions:
       Galathea Reports
       Swedish Deep-Sea Expedition
       Dana Reports
       Papers of the Danish Biological Station
       Reports of the "Michael Sars" Expeditions
       Revue der hydrobiologie und hydrographie
       Papers from the Tortugas laboratory
       Meddelelser om Gronland
       Bulletin of the U.S. Fish Commission
       Bulletin of the Museum of Comparative Zoology
       Bulletin of the U.S. National Museum
       Serial Atlases of the Marine Environment

   Newsletters: The Library maintains approximately 300 newsletters from
   various marine and fishery science organizations and government
   agencies.

   [HOME]
