http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov/glossary.html

   Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry Search  |  Index  |
   Home  |  Glossary  |  Contact Us


     CONTENTS
     En Español
     General Terms
    • A B C
    • D E F
    • G H I
    • J K L
    • M N O
    • P Q R S
    • T U V
    • W X Y Z
     ATSDR Terms
    • A B C
    • D E F
    • G H I
    • J K L
    • M N O
    • P Q R S
    • T U V
    • W X Y Z

                           ATSDR Glossary of Terms

General Terms

   Absorption The process of taking in, as when a sponge takes up water.
   Chemicals can be absorbed through the skin into the bloodstream and
   then transported to other organs. Chemicals can also be absorbed into
   the bloodstream after breathing or swallowing.

   Acute Occurring over a short time, usually a few minutes or hours. An
   acute exposure can result in short-term or long-term health effects. An
   acute effect happens a short time (up to 1 year) after exposure.

   Ambient Surrounding. For example, ambient air is usually outdoor air
   (as opposed to indoor air).

   Analyte A chemical component of a sample to be determined or measured.
   For example, if the analyte is mercury, the laboratory test will
   determine the amount of mercury in the sample.

   Analytic Epidemiologic Study Investigations designed to evaluate the
   causal nature of associations between exposure to hazardous substances
   and disease outcome by testing scientific hypotheses.

   Applied Research An investigative study in which the results are used
   in actual practice.

   Background Level A typical or average level of a chemical in the
   environment. Background often refers to naturally occurring or
   uncontaminated levels.

   Biological Indicators of Exposure Study A study designed to use
   biomedical testing or the measurement of a chemical (analyte), its
   metabolite, or another marker of exposure in human body fluids or
   tissues in order to validate human exposure to a hazardous substance.

   Biological Monitoring Measuring chemicals in biological materials
   (blood, urine, breath, etc.) to determine whether chemical exposure in
   humans, animals, or plants has occurred.

   Biological Uptake The transfer of hazardous substances from the
   environment to plants, animals, and humans. This may be evaluated
   through environmental measurements, such as measurement of the amount
   of the substance in an organ known to be susceptible to that substance.
   More commonly, biological dose measurements are used to determine
   whether exposure has occurred. The presence of a contaminant, or its
   metabolite, in human biologic specimens, such as blood, hair, or urine,
   is used to confirm exposure and can be an independent variable in
   evaluating the relationship between the exposure and any observed
   adverse health effects.

   Biomedical Testing Biological testing of persons to evaluate a
   qualitative or quantitative change in a physiologic function that may
   be predictive of a health impairment resulting from exposure to
   hazardous substance(s).

   Body Burden The total amount of a chemical in the body. Some chemicals
   build up in the body because they are stored in fat or bone or are
   eliminated very slowly.

   Carcinogen Any substance that may produce cancer.

   CAS Number (also CAS Registry Number, CAS RN, or CAS#) A unique
   accession number assigned by the Chemical Abstracts Service, a division
   of the American Chemical Society. Other than being guaranteed unique to
   a given compound, this number has no particular meaning. CAS Registry
   Numbers are assigned to every uniquely-identifiable substance, so
   'cis-2-hexene', 'trans-2-hexene', and '2-hexene' (a mixture with
   unspecified cis/trans composition) are all assigned separate CAS
   Numbers.

   Case Study The medical or epidemiologic evaluation of a single person
   or a small number of individuals to determine descriptive information
   about their health status or potential for exposure through interview
   or biomedical testing.

   Central Nervous System The part of the nervous system that includes the
   brain and the spinal cord.

   CERCLA The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
   Liability Act of 1980, also known as Superfund. This is the legislation
   that created ATSDR.

   Chronic Occurring over a long period of time (more than 1 year).

   Cluster Investigation A review of an unusual number, real or perceived,
   of health events (for example, reports of cancer) grouped together in
   time and location. Cluster investigations are designed to confirm case
   reports; determine whether they represent an unusual disease
   occurrence; and, if possible, explore possible causes and environmental
   factors.

   Community Health Investigation Medical or epidemiologic evaluation of
   descriptive health information about individual persons or a population
   of persons to evaluate and determine health concerns and to assess the
   likelihood that they may be linked to exposure to hazardous substances.

   Concentration The amount of one substance dissolved or contained in a
   given amount of another. For example, sea water contains a higher
   concentration of salt than fresh water.

   Contaminant Any substance or material that enters a system (the
   environment, human body, food, etc.) where it is not normally found.

   Dermal Referring to the skin. Dermal absorption means absorption
   through the skin.

   Descriptive Epidemiology Study of the amount and distribution of
   disease within a population by person, place, and time.

   Disease- and Symptom-Prevalence Study A study designed to measure the
   occurrence of self-reported disease that may, in some instances, be
   validated through medical records or physical examination if available,
   and to determine those adverse health conditions that may require
   further investigation because they are considered to have been reported
   at an excess rate. This study design can only be considered hypothesis
   generating.

   Disease Registry A system for collecting and maintaining in a
   structured record, information on persons having a common illness or
   adverse health condition.

   Dose The amount of substance to which a person is exposed. Dose often
   takes body weight into account.

   Environmental Contamination The presence of hazardous substances in the
   environment. From the public health perspective, environmental
   contamination is addressed when it potentially affects the health and
   quality of life of people living and working near the contamination.

   Epidemiologic Surveillance The ongoing, systematic collection,
   analysis, and interpretation of health data essential to the planning,
   implementation, and evaluation of public health practice, closely
   integrated with the timely dissemination of these data to those who
   need to know. The final link in the surveillance chain is the
   application of these data to prevention and control. A surveillance
   system includes a functional capacity for data collection, analysis,
   and dissemination linked to public health programs.

   Epidemiology The study of the occurrence and causes of health effects
   in human populations. An epidemiological study often compares two
   groups of people who are alike except for one factor, such as exposure
   to a chemical or the presence of a health effect. The investigators try
   to determine if any factor is associated with the health effect.

   Exposure Contact with a chemical by swallowing, by breathing, or by
   direct contact (such as through the skin or eyes). Exposure may be
   short term (acute) or long term (chronic).

   Exposure Registry A system for collecting and maintaining in a
   structured record, information on persons with documented environmental
   exposure(s). The exposure registry evolved from the need for
   fundamental information concerning the potential impact on human health
   of long-term exposure to low and moderate levels of hazardous
   substances.

   Geographic Information System (GIS) A computer hardware and software
   system designed to collect, manipulate, analyze, and display spatially
   referenced data for solving complex resource, environmental, and social
   problems.

   Hazard A source of risk that does not necessarily imply potential for
   occurrence. A hazard produces risk only if an exposure pathway exists,
   and if exposures create the possibility of adverse consequences.

   Health Investigation Any investigation of a defined population, using
   epidemiologic methods, which would assist in determining exposures or
   possible public health impact by defining health problems requiring
   further investigation through epidemiologic studies, environmental
   monitoring or sampling, and surveillance.

   Health Outcomes Study An investigation of exposed persons designed to
   assist in identifying exposure or effects on public health. Health
   studies also define the health problems that require further inquiry by
   means of, for example, a health surveillance or epidemiologic study.

   Health Professional Education Any activity or activities directed
   toward public health professionals and the local medical community. The
   purpose of this activity is to improve the knowledge, skill, and
   behavior of health professionals concerning medical surveillance,
   screening, and methods of diagnosing, treating, and preventing injury
   or disease related to exposure to hazardous substances. These
   activities may include immediately disseminating written materials or
   making database information available, presenting workshops and short
   courses, or, where appropriate, long-term follow-up activities.

   Health Statistics Review Evaluation of information and relevant health
   outcome data for an involved population, including reports of injury,
   disease, or death in the community. Databases may be local, state, or
   national; information from private health care providers and
   organizations may also be used. Databases may include morbidity and
   mortality data, tumor and disease registries, birth statistics, and
   surveillance data.

   Health Surveillance The periodic medical screening of a defined
   population for a specific disease or for biological markers of disease
   for which the population is, or is thought to be, at significantly
   increased risk. The program should include a mechanism to refer for
   treatment those persons who test positive for disease (also called
   Medical Monitoring).

   Ingestion Swallowing (such as eating or drinking). Chemicals can get in
   or on food, drink, utensils, cigarettes, or hands where they can be
   ingested. After ingestion, chemicals can be absorbed into the blood and
   distributed throughout the body.

   Inhalation Breathing. Exposure may occur from inhaling contaminants
   because they can be deposited in the lungs, taken into the blood, or
   both.

   Media Soil, water, air, plants, animals, or any other parts of the
   environment that can contain contaminants.

   Metabolism All the chemical reactions that enable the body to work. For
   example, food is metabolized (chemically changed) to supply the body
   with energy. Chemicals can be metabolized and made either more or less
   harmful by the body.

   Metabolite Any product of metabolism.

   Morbidity Illness or disease. Morbidity rate is the number of illnesses
   or cases of disease in a population.

   National Priorities List (NPL) The Environmental Protection Agency's
   (EPA) listing of sites that have undergone preliminary assessment and
   site inspection to determine which locations pose immediate threat to
   persons living or working near the release. These sites are most in
   need of cleanup.

   National Toxicology Program (NTP) NTP conducts toxicological testing on
   those substances most frequently found at sites on the National
   Priorities List of the EPA, and which also have the greatest potential
   for human exposure.

   Pilot Health Study Any investigation of exposed individuals, using
   epidemiologic methods, which would assist in determining exposures or
   possible public health impacts by defining health problems requiring
   further investigation through epidemiologic studies, environmental
   monitoring or sampling, surveillance, or registries.

   Plume An area of chemicals in a particular medium, such as air or
   groundwater, moving away from its source in a long band or column. A
   plume can be a column of smoke from a chimney or chemicals moving with
   groundwater.

   Registry A system for collecting and maintaining, in a structured
   record, information on specific persons from a defined population.
   Preliminary analyses and reviews are performed.

   Risk In risk assessment, the probability that something will cause
   injury, combined with the potential severity of that injury.

   Route of Exposure The way in which a person may contact a chemical
   substance. For example, drinking (ingestion) and bathing (skin contact)
   are two different routes of exposure to contaminants that may be found
   in water.

   Site-Specific Surveillance Epidemiologic surveillance activity designed
   to assess the specific occurrence of one or more defined health
   conditions among a specific population potentially exposed to hazardous
   substances in the environment.

   Substance-Specific Applied Research A program of research designed to
   fill data needs. Activities may include laboratory and other studies to
   determine short-term, intermediate, and long-term health effects from
   human exposure to a given substance; laboratory and other studies to
   determine organ-, site-, and system-specific acute and chronic
   toxicity; laboratory and other studies to determine the manner in which
   a substance is metabolized or to develop an understanding of the
   biokinetics of the substance; and, where there is the possibility of
   obtaining human exposure data, collecting that information.

   Superfund Another name for the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
   Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), which created ATSDR.

   Surveillance Activities Those activities that evaluate exposure or
   trends in adverse health effects over a specified period of time.
   Surveillance activities address the ongoing systematic collection,
   analysis, and interpretation of health data in the process of
   describing and monitoring a health event. Data obtained through
   surveillance are very important for appropriate decisions regarding the
   planning, evaluation, or implementation of public health interventions.

   Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Substances containing carbon and
   different proportions of other elements such as hydrogen, oxygen,
   fluorine, chlorine, bromine, sulfur, or nitrogen; these substances
   easily become vapors or gases. A significant number of the VOCs are
   commonly used as solvents (paint thinners, lacquer thinner, degreasers,
   and dry cleaning fluids).
     __________________________________________________________________

ATSDR-Specific Terms

   Community Assistance Panel (CAP) Community assistance panels are
   established to (1) facilitate constructive communication between ATSDR
   and the affected community; (2) provide an ongoing series of
   community-based meetings to ensure community involvement throughout the
   range of ATSDR public health activities at a site; and (3) provide
   information to ATSDR on the community's health concerns for inclusion
   in the public health assessment.

   Comparison Values Estimated contaminant concentrations in specific
   media that are not likely to cause adverse health effects, given a
   standard daily ingestion rate and standard body weight. The comparison
   values are calculated from the scientific literature available on
   exposure and health effects.

   Exposure Dose Reconstruction An approach that uses computational models
   and other approximation techniques to estimate cumulative amounts of
   hazardous substances internalized by people at presumed or actual risk
   from contact with substances associated with hazardous waste sites.

   Exposure Investigation The collection and analysis of site-specific
   information to determine if human populations have been exposed to
   hazardous substances. The site-specific information may include
   environmental sampling, exposure-dose reconstruction, biologic or
   biomedical testing, and evaluation of medical information. The
   information from an exposure investigation is included in public health
   assessments, health consultations, and public health advisories.

   Hazardous Substances and Health Effects Database (HazDat) The
   scientific database developed by ATSDR to manage data collection,
   retrieval, analysis, and utilization through the sophisticated
   technologies provided by computerization. HazDat allows ATSDR to locate
   information on the release of hazardous substances into the
   environment, and to ascertain the effects of hazardous substances on
   health with improved uniformity, efficiency, and precision.

   Health Consultation A response to a specific question or request for
   information pertaining to a hazardous substance or facility (which
   includes waste sites). It often contains a time-critical element that
   necessitates a rapid response; therefore, it is a more limited response
   than an assessment.

   Health Education A program of activities to promote health and provide
   information and training about hazardous substances in the environment
   that will result in the reduction of exposure, illness, or disease.
   This program--both national and site-specific in focus--includes
   diagnosis and treatment information for health care providers and
   activities in communities to enable them to prevent or mitigate the
   health effects from exposure to hazardous substances at hazardous waste
   sites.

   Health Outcome Data A major source of data for public health
   assessments. The identification, review, and evaluation of health
   outcome parameters are interactive processes involving the health
   assessors, data source generators, and the local community. Health
   outcome data are community specific and may be derived from databases
   at the local, state, and national levels, as well as from data
   collected by private health care organizations and professional
   institutions and associations. Databases to be considered include
   morbidity and mortality data, birth statistics, medical records, tumor
   and disease registries, surveillance data, and previously conducted
   health studies.

   Medical Monitoring The periodic medical testing to screen people at
   significant increased threat of disease.

   Minimal Risk Level (MRL) An MRL is defined as an estimate of daily
   human exposure to a substance that is likely to be without an
   appreciable risk of adverse effects (noncancer) over a specified
   duration of exposure. MRLs are derived when reliable and sufficient
   data exist to identify the target organ(s) of effect or the most
   sensitive health effect(s) for a specific duration via a given route of
   exposure. MRLs are based on noncancer health effects only. MRLs can be
   derived for acute, intermediate, and chronic duration exposures by the
   inhalation and oral routes.

   National Exposure Registry A listing of persons exposed to hazardous
   substances. This listing is composed of chemical-specific
   subregistries. The primary purpose of the registry program is to create
   a large database of similarly exposed persons. This database is to be
   used to facilitate epidemiology research in ascertaining adverse health
   effects of persons exposed to low levels of chemicals over a long
   period.

   No Apparent Public Health Hazard Sites where human exposure to
   contaminated media is occurring or has occurred in the past, but the
   exposure is below a level of health hazard.

   No Public Health Hazard Sites for which data indicate no current or
   past exposure or no potential for exposure and therefore no health
   hazard.

   Petitioned Public Health Assessment A public health assessment
   conducted at the request of a member of the public. When a petition is
   received, a team of environmental and health scientists is assigned to
   gather information to ascertain, using standard public health criteria,
   whether there is a reasonable basis for conducting a public health
   assessment. Once ATSDR confirms that a public health assessment is
   needed, the petitioned health assessment process is essentially the
   same as the public health assessment process.

   Potential/Indeterminate Public Health Hazard Sites for which no
   conclusions about public health hazard can be made because data are
   lacking.

   Potentially Exposed The condition where valid information, usually
   analytical environmental data, indicates the presence of contaminant(s)
   of a public health concern in one or more environmental media
   contacting humans (i.e., air, drinking water, soil, food chain, surface
   water), and there is evidence that some of those persons have an
   identified route(s) of exposure (i.e., drinking contaminated water,
   breathing contaminated air, having contact with contaminated soil, or
   eating contaminated food).

   Public Availability Session An informal, drop-by meeting at which
   community members can meet one-on-one with ATSDR staff members to
   discuss health and site-related concerns.

   Public Comment An opportunity for the general public to comment on
   Agency findings or proposed activities. The public health assessment
   process, for example, includes the opportunity for public comment as
   the last step in the draft phase. The purposes of this activity are to
   1) provide the public, particularly the community associated with a
   site, the opportunity to comment on the public health findings
   contained in the public health assessment, 2) evaluate whether the
   community health concerns have been adequately addressed, and 3)
   provide ATSDR with additional information.

   Public Health Action Designed to prevent exposures and/or to mitigate
   or prevent adverse health effects in populations living near hazardous
   waste sites or releases. Public health actions can be identified from
   information developed in public health advisories, public health
   assessments, and health consultations. These actions include
   recommending the dissociation (separation) of individuals from
   exposures (for example, by providing an alternative water supply),
   conducting biologic indicators of exposure studies to assess exposure,
   and providing health education for health care providers and community
   members.

   Public Health Advisory A statement by ATSDR containing a finding that a
   release of hazardous substances poses a significant risk to human
   health and recommending measures to be taken to reduce exposure and
   eliminate or substantially mitigate the significant risk to human
   health.

   Public Health Assessment The evaluation of data and information on the
   release of hazardous substances into the environment in order to assess
   any current or future impact on public health, develop health
   advisories or other recommendations, and identify studies or actions
   needed to evaluate and mitigate or prevent human health effects; also,
   the document resulting from that evaluation.

   Public Health Hazard Sites that pose a public health hazard as the
   result of long-term exposures to hazardous substances.

   Public Health Statement The first chapter of an ATSDR toxicological
   profile. It is intended to be a health effects summary written in lay
   language for the target audience, that is, the general public,
   especially people living in the vicinity of a hazardous waste site or
   chemical release.

   Risk Communication Activities to ensure that messages and strategies
   designed to prevent exposure, adverse human health effects, and
   diminished quality of life are effectively communicated to the public.
   As part of a broader prevention strategy, risk communication supports
   education efforts by promoting public awareness, increasing knowledge,
   and motivating individuals to take action to reduce their exposure to
   hazardous substances.

   Significant Health Risk Circumstances where people are being or could
   be exposed to hazardous substances at levels that pose an urgent public
   health hazard or a public health hazard; public health advisories are
   generally issued when urgent public health hazards have been
   identified.

   Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) The 1986
   legislation that broadened ATSDR's responsibilities in the areas of
   public health assessments, establishment and maintenance of toxicologic
   databases, information dissemination, and medical education.

   Technical Assistance A technical assist is a written or an oral
   response to requests for technical information and public health
   recommendations. This information is frequently incorporated into a
   health consultation.

   Toxicological Profile A document about a specific substance in which
   ATSDR scientists interpret all known information on the substance and
   specify the levels at which people may be harmed if exposed. The
   toxicological profile also identifies significant gaps in knowledge on
   the substance, and serves to initiate further research, where needed.

   Urgent Public Health Hazard Sites that pose a serious risk to the
   public health as the result of short-term exposures to hazardous
   substances.

   Voluntary Residents Tracking System A collection of persons who are
   contacted periodically, for a limited time, for the purpose of
   disseminating information or of coordinating other health-related
   services.
     __________________________________________________________________

   For more information on the work of ATSDR, please contact:

   Office of Policy and External Affairs
   Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
   1600 Clifton Road, N.E. (E-60)
   Atlanta, Georgia 30333

   Telephone: (404) 498-0080
     __________________________________________________________________

         ATSDR Home  |  Search  |  Index  |  Glossary  |  Contact Us
    About ATSDR  |  News Archive  |  ToxFAQs  |  HazDat  |  Public Health
                                 Assessments
       Privacy Policy  |  External Links Disclaimer  |  Accessibility
                U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
