http://satc.gsfc.nasa.gov/crm/information/index.html

                        crm_title_w.gif (8825 bytes)

   Continuous Risk Management (CRM), a process developed in a
   collaborative effort between Carnegie Mellon University, NASA, and DoD,
   is being highlighted as a valuable resource to Project Managers here at
   the Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC).  It provides solutions for
   making informed decisions, optimizing the allocation and use of project
   resources, and defining trades against cost, schedule, and performance
   goals. In essence, CRM is a process that reduces the impact of issues
   and uncertainties on a project to an acceptable level. It searches for
   and identifies risks before they become problems and provides
   mitigation actions to reduce their likelihood and/or impact.

   The focus on CRM has provided an opportunity for the Office of Systems
   Safety and Mission Assurance (OSSMA) to provide CRM training services
   to GSFC flight projects, the Agency, NASA contractors, and other
   organizations supporting the government. OSSMA has expanded the role of
   the Systems Safety and Reliability Office (Code 302) to perform other
   CRM support and add rigor to our existing risk management activities.
   Code 302 can assist your project by providing the following services:
     * Risk Management Training providing presentations to management, a
       half-day overview of the basic CRM elements and process (including
       examples), or a 2-day training session that provides for more
       in-depth training in the CRM process. The 2-day session includes a
       choice of two workshops geared specifically to the participants'
       project. The first workshop establishes a baseline set of risks and
       mitigation actions for several of those risks identified. The
       second workshop emphasizes the establishment of key elements for
       developing a Risk Management Plan. Incorporating CRM into a project
       satisfies the requirements established in the NASA Procedures and
       Guidelines (NPG) 7120.5A "NASA Program and Project Management
       Processes and Requirements". For further information on training
       schedules and content, visit the CRM Training link.
     * Train-the-Trainers courses that will certify personnel from your
       organization to conduct on-site CRM training. This effort consists
       of a three-day initial training session and a follow-on two-day
       certification effort. The Software Assurance Technology Center can
       also provide follow-on support to your certified trainers.
     * Continuous Risk Management (CRM) process guidance for identifying,
       analyzing, mitigating, monitoring, and tracking risks. Flight
       projects integrate this process into their Project Management
       activity. Assistance through each of these steps during the project
       life cycle is also provided.
     * Risk Management Plan development that assists a project RM team or
       Risk Manager in establishing requirements using the CRM process as
       a baseline. Code 302 will also help develop a complete RM plan for
       the project if desired.
     * Safety and Reliability Risk Assessments for both hardware and
       software that provide an in-depth analysis of the risks a project
       faces in these disciplines. The office captures and analyzes risk
       data through the use of Pert charts, critical path analysis,
       predictive models, metrics analysis, trend analysis (incl.
       Spacecraft On-orbit Anomaly Reports), failure rate handbooks,
       Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (FMEA), Safety and Hazard
       Reports, and other evaluation tools.

   For further information send your questions to Richard Day at GSFC.

       SATC Home Send E-Mail to the SATC NASA Goddard NASA IV+V
       Copyright © 2001
       Software Assurance Technology Center
