http://propulsid.laed.uscourts.gov/Orders/me011801.pdf

   MINUTE ENTRY FALLON, J. January 18, 2001 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
   EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA : MDL NO. 1355 IN RE: PROPULSID :
   PRODUCTS LIABILITY LITIGATION : SECTION "L" :: JUDGE FALLON .. .. .. ..
   .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
   .. .. ..: JUDGE AFRICK THIS DOCUMENT RELATES TO ALL CASES: A pretrial
   status conference was held January 18, 2001 at 2:00 p.m. in the
   courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon. In attendance for Plaintiffs were
   Richard J. Arsenault, Dawn Barrios, Robert Becnel, David Buchanan,
   Issac Byrd, Leonard Davis, Walter Dumas, Wendell Gauthier, Russ M.
   Herman, Barry Hill, Larry Morris, Hiawatha Northington, Carlos Prietto,
   James Roy, Chris Seeger, Deborah Sulzer, and Robert Wright. In
   attendance for Defendants were Thomas F. Campion, James B. Irwin, and
   Charles F. Preuss. At the conference, counsel reported to the Court on
   the topics set forth in Joint Report No. 3 of Plaintiffs' and
   Defendants' Liaison Counsel, and the Court made the following rulings:
   1. Virtual Document Depository: Both parties indicated to the Court
   their interest in participating in a virtual document depository
   reserving for a later date decisions on what documents should be placed
   in the 1 depository and how to insure security for the depository.
   Plaintiffs' Liaison Counsel shall confer with the vendor selected by
   the parties regarding the creation of a virtual document depository and
   report to the Court on the progress of the installation of a virtual
   document depository within ten (10) days. 2. Plaintiff Profile
   Forms/Authorizations Plaintiffs' Liaison Counsel and Defendants'
   Liaison Counsel have agreed on a plaintiff profile form. The parties
   shall submit an order to the Court providing for the use of the
   plaintiff profile forms and authorizations as well as a copy of the
   proposed form in electronic format which shall be posted on the Court's
   MDL No. 1355 website. Plaintiffs shall complete and respond to the
   profile form within forty-five (45) days of its approval by the Court.
   Plaintiffs whose cases have been transferred after the profile form has
   been approved and put on-line shall complete the form within forty-five
   (45) days of their transfer order. The disclosure of certain
   information such as psychiatric background will be addressed on the
   basis of each individual case. 3. Master Complaint/Answer As a result
   of the ruling in Lexecon, Inc. v. Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach,
   523 U.S. 26 (1998), the parties indicated problems associated with the
   drafting of a master complaint. The parties shall attempt to resolve
   any issues concerning the master complaint within sixty (60) days and
   thereafter report to the Court on the status of the master complaint.
   4. Update of Rolling Document Production Defendants indicated that they
   have produced to plaintiffs at this time approximately 480,000 pages of
   documents with objective coding in CD-ROM format and an additional
   12,000 pages of documents in hard copy format. 2 5. Electronic
   Service/Verilaw The parties will submit to the Court a supplemental
   order requiring all counsel to have access to e-mail and accept service
   of MDL No. 1355 filings on e-mail. 6. State Liaison Counsel The
   following State Liaison Counsel were present at the conference and
   introduced to the Court: Richard J. Arsenault, Issac Byrd, Walter
   Dumas, Barry Hill, and Chris Seeger. The Court also appointed Dawn
   Barrios and David Jacobus as State Liaison Counsel. 7. Cross-Noticed
   MIS Depositions Depositions of Defendants' representatives are
   scheduled to proceed in New Jersey on January 23, 2001. MDL counsel
   will monitor and participate in the depositions to the extent
   necessary. 8. Electronic Document Production Plaintiffs' have filed a
   motion regarding electronic document production. The hearing on the
   motion is currently scheduled for February 15, 2001 at 2:00 p.m. in the
   courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon. Defendants indicated that they may
   seek a continuance of the hearing date and shall advise the Court
   following the taking of depositions in New Jersey. 9. Deposition
   Regarding Corporate Organization Depositions directed at discovery of
   the organizational structures and procedures of defendants pursuant to
   Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 30(b)(6) shall commence in February,
   2001. The parties shall meet and confer in order to select mutually
   acceptable dates, times, and places for the depositions. 3 10. Response
   to Document Request to Defendants Defense Liaison Counsel shall prepare
   any response and/or objections to Plaintiffs' Request for Production of
   Documents by January 31, 2001. 11. State Coordination The Court
   encouraged the parties to work toward coordinating their efforts in
   this litigation with the various state litigations. 12. Document
   Production Protocol After discussion with counsel, the Court issued
   Pretrial Order No. 8 which establishes the protocol for transferring
   documents that currently exist in hard copy format into electronic
   format. 4
