http://hurricane.info.usaid.gov/reports/index.html

                          Skip redundant navigation
                           Image link to home page


   Item Home Item This Is USAID Item Privacy Item What's New Item Missions
                  Item Employment Item Search Item Contact
   spacer image
   The United States Agency for International Development

                         Hurricanes Mitch & Georges:

                           From Relief to Recovery

                              Executive Summary

                                    >> Hurricanes >> From Relief to Recovery




     Letter from the Administrator (PDF)

     [bluearrow.gif] Hurricane Mitch Countries:
         [bluearrow.gif] El Salvador
         [bluearrow.gif] Guatemala
         [bluearrow.gif] Honduras
         [bluearrow.gif] Nicaragua
         [bluearrow.gif] Costa Rica
         [bluearrow.gif] Central America
         Regional Activities

     [bluearrow.gif] Hurricane Georges
       Countries:
         [bluearrow.gif] Eastern Caribbean
         [bluearrow.gif] Dominican Republic
         [bluearrow.gif] Haiti

     Donor Coordination

     Accountability

     USAID's U.S. Government Partner Agencies

     Preparing for the Future

     Tuesday, 06-Feb-2001 16:30:31 EST


   Executive Summary

      The two hurricanes that devastated the Caribbean and Central America in
      late 1998 were a setback to the people and to the economies of several
      nations. In a week's time, decades of development progress were lost as
      roads, bridges, schools, health clinics, crops, and livestock were
      destroyed. In Central America, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
      estimated the damage at $8.5 billion for the region.

      USAID's Office of U.S. Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) responded
      immediately with relief supplies and assistance along with the direct
      support of the U.S. Department of Defense and the provision of food aid
      from the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Following on the heels of the
      relief efforts, USAID reprogrammed funds and began the enormous task of
      assessing damage and rehabilitating critical services.

      In May 1999, Congress passed the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations
      Act, creating the Central American and Caribbean Emergency Disaster
      Recovery Fund (CACEDRF), which contained a total of $621 million in
      reconstruction assistance. The U.S. Agency for International
      Development (USAID) and over a dozen other federal agencies are now
      involved in the reconstruction of the region. All Americans can be
      proud of this effort, which saved countless lives and prevented the
      outbreak of disease and hunger.

      This report provides information on the immediate relief and
      reconstruction efforts undertaken by USAID and its U.S. government
      partner agencies. Many of the activities initiated during the relief
      phase have been expanded with the help of supplemental funding and are
      highlighted here. In addition, special attention has been paid to
      ensuring the accountability of all reconstruction assistance.
      Additional safeguards have been designed to make sure that these funds
      are used appropriately.

      The United States has joined an impressive array of bilateral and
      multilateral donors in responding to the challenge of reconstruction.
      The involvement of many countries along with the international
      financial institutions makes close donor coordination essential, and
      again, new mechanisms have been devised to ensure follow-up by host
      country governments and donors alike, to avoid duplication and to make
      the best use of funds provided.

      Finally, under the direction of the White House and the Office of
      Management and Budget (OMB), USAID has established close working
      relationships with more than a dozen U.S. government agencies that are
      providing specialized reconstruction assistance. Of the $621 million
      appropriated by CACEDRF, $112 million has been transferred to other
      U.S. government agencies working in concert with USAID.

   Relief to Reconstruction

      Hurricane Mitch and Hurricane Georges were among the most severe and
      powerful storms ever to hit Central America and the Caribbean in the
      history of the hemisphere. Hurricane Mitch, carrying 180-mph winds at
      its height on October 26 and 27, l998, produced massive flooding and
      destruction, engulfing entire villages and destroying homes, crops and
      infrastructure. The face of these countries was permanently changed by
      the devastation.

      The human and economic toll exacted by Mitch was staggering. More than
      9,000 people were killed, 13,000 injured, and 3 million displaced. In
      one single, tragic mudslide in Posoltega, Nicaragua, 2,000 people
      perished. Hundreds of bridges, thousands of schools, clinics and
      kilometers of roadway were destroyed or damaged. There were also severe
      losses to rice, corn, beans, coffee and banana crops, the basic
      economic mainstay of thousands of poor farmers and consumers. Direct
      and indirect damages from the storm were estimated at more than $8.5
      billion in Honduras, Nicaragua, Guatemala and El Salvador, with $3.4
      billion in Honduras alone.


                                                            What Is CACEDRF?
       Congress passed the Emergency Supplemental Ap-propriations Act of 1999
           (Public Law 106-31), which appropriated $621 million for a Central
          America and Caribbean Emergency Disaster Recovery Fund, or CACEDRF.


                  Central America
   Costa Rica
   El Salvador
   Guatemala
   Honduras
   Nicaragua                       $ 5. 0 million
                                   $22.1 million
                                   $25.0 million
                                   $291.0 million
                                   $94.1 million
                     Caribbean
   Eastern Caribbean
   Dominican Republic
   Haiti                            $ 3.0 million
                                   $29.0 million
                                   $ 9.8 million
   USAID USG Partners              $112.0 million
   USAID Regional Activities        $12.5 million
   Office of the Inspector General  $ 1.5 million
   General Accounting Office (GAO)   $ .5 million
   Operating Expenses                $5.5 million
   Colombia Earthquake              $10.0 million
   TOTAL                           $621.0 million

      From September 20-22, 1998, Hurricane Georges swept through the
      Caribbean, leaving death and devastation in its wake. Damage to the
      countries of the Caribbean from Hurricane Georges exceeded $1.7
      billion, with the Dominican Republic bearing the brunt of the disaster.
      Housing, in particular, was devastated, with over 48,000 people
      requiring new homes and an additional 122,000 homes requiring repair.

      In both cases, from the very first moments of the storms, personnel
      from OFDA were on the ground providing damage assessments. In response
      to Mitch, the U.S. mounted one of the largest international emergency
      relief responses to a natural disaster in U.S. history. In addition,
      nearly two dozen countries and a dozen international organizations were
      involved. USAID, the U.S. Department of Agriculture the U.S. military
      and others provided over $300 million in critical assistance in the
      space of a few months. Water, food, medicines, shelter, blankets and
      supplies were delivered to millions of victims of the storms' wrath.

      U.S. military personnel, who eventually were to number 5,000, rescued
      more than 1,000 people, cleared roadways and provided emergency repairs
      to bridges, roads and schools. The food airlift surpassed the
      comparable period of the Berlin Airlift and became the largest airlift
      of food from the continental U.S. in history, delivering 84 million
      pounds of commodities by December 31, l998.


                                                     STOCKHOLM DECLARATION
      Reduce the social and ecological vulnerability of the region, as the
                                                          overriding goal.

   Reconstruct and transform Central America on the basis of an integrated
                             approach of transparency and good governance.

     Consolidate democracy and good governance, reinforcing the process of
    decentralization of governmental functions and powers, with the active
                                           participation of civil society.

            Promote respect for human rights as a permanent objective. The
   promotion of equality between women and men, the rights of children, of
     ethnic groups and other minorities should be given special attention.

       Coordinate donor efforts, guided by priorities set by the recipient
                                                                countries.

     Intensify efforts to reduce the external debt burden of the countries
                                                            of the region.

      USAID provided over $30 million, which included immediate relief and
      disaster assistance to repair community water and sanitation systems.
      Networks of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) were mobilized to
      distribute food, construct temporary housing, open farm-to-market roads
      and distribute tools and implements to replant lost crops. Despite the
      hazardous conditions, major epidemics were avoided. As life-threatening
      needs were met, the priority shifted to helping people return to their
      normal routines, getting schools and public programs back into
      operation, giving access to homes, farms, markets and communities.
      During this phase, USAID provided $120 million in reprogrammed
      financing to make this transition possible.

      In the face of the huge recovery and reconstruction job that would be
      required, the Clinton administration assembled a White House Task Force
      to manage the crisis. President Clinton, first lady Hillary Clinton,
      Tipper Gore, and numerous congressional delegations traveled to the
      region to directly inspect the damage and pledge support for the major
      task that lay ahead. The president enlisted the entire Cabinet to
      participate in the response and directed a comprehensive approach that
      included reconstruction assistance, enhanced trade legislation, debt
      relief and immigration.

      By early l999, USAID missions had taken the lead in defining specific
      damage estimates and reconstruction requirements with other donors and
      host government agencies. Other U.S. government agencies, like the U.S.
      Army Corps of Engineers and the U.S. Geological Survey among others,
      made assessment visits to the affected countries. Extensive planning
      efforts were undertaken in each country to begin the process of
      reconstruction.

      On February 16, l999, the administration announced the request of $956
      million in supplemental FY l999 funds for the Central American
      countries affected by Hurricane Mitch as well as the Caribbean
      countries hit by Hurricane Georges in September l998. This vital
      assistance was approved by Congress on May 21, l999. It included $280
      million to repay accounts that were used to fund the emergency relief
      effort and $621 million in grant funding for CACEDRF. Principal foci of
      the reconstruction assistance are the restoration of national health
      care delivery systems, community water and sanitation, and economic
      reactivation through rebuilding farm-to-market roads, and
      re-establishment of agricultural production. The replacement of lost
      housing and shelter, rehabilitation and resupply of damaged schools,
      disaster mitigation and watershed restoration, as well as support for
      local governments, are also critical priorities. More than $110 million
      of the fund is being implemented with other U.S. agencies such as the
      departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Health and Human Services,
      Housing and Urban Development, Interior, Energy, Transportation, the
      Peace Corps, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Export-Import Bank, Federal
      Emergency Management Agency and the Overseas Private Investment
      Corporation.

   The Consultative Group

      Following passage of the supplemental appropriation, the U.S.
      government joined over 50 other donor nations and international
      organizations and financial institutions at the Consultative Group
      meeting in Stockholm, Sweden, May 25-28, 1999.

   Promoting Greater Accountability in Honduras
   The USAID mission in Honduras developed additional levels of oversight
   for its programs implementing reconstruction activities with Government
   of Honduras counterparts. In programs with Honduran Social Investment
   Fund (FHIS), the Sanitation and Water Authority (SANAA,) the Ministry
   of Health (MOH), and the Ministry of Education (MOE), USAID created
   Concurrent Audit Teams (CATs) to review 100 percent of transactions
   undertaken with CACEDRF funds. In most cases, these CATs include
   engineers or other technical personnel who can provide a technical
   perspective in reviewing transactions. For SANAA, the MOH, and MOE, the
   same firm performing the CAT function will also manage actual
   disbursements on the basis of this review and funds will generally be
   disbursed only on a reimbursement basis. The internal financial reviews
   carried out by the CATs are in addition to USAID's regular recipient
   audit program and the audit program developed by the USAID Regional
   Inspector General.

      The countries of Central America formally presented their
      reconstruction plans while donor countries and the international
      financial institutions made pledges of support. In addition, the U.S.
      delegation worked closely with other donors and the host countries'
      governments to establish a set of guiding principles that were included
      in the final communiqué of the Consultative Group and is known as the
      Stockholm Declaration.

      Key aspects of the Stockholm Declaration had already been established
      in USAID's own approach to the reconstruction process. First, all
      construction work needs to follow sensible land use practices;
      environmental and disaster risk will determine what is built, where and
      how. Second, activities need to address the equity issues of the
      poorest, elderly and indigenous who suffered the most from the
      hurricane. Third, wherever possible, implementation relies upon the
      cooperative forces and dynamism of local government and civil society.
      And, finally, all participating in the reconstruction will make a
      strong and full commitment to transparency and accountability in the
      use of funds.

      The Consultative Group also identified a Group of Five (G-5) donors
      that would initiate discussions with the governments in each country on
      how best to follow up on these commitments and to monitor the
      reconstruction process. The G-5 includes Canada, Germany, Spain, Sweden
      and the United States. In each country, this donor group expanded to
      include other interested donors to maximize efforts to avoid
      duplication and to strive to speak with one voice on policy issues of
      concern to the international community.

   Accountability

      From the outset of the reconstruction effort, there has been no greater
      concern than with the issue of accountability of the uses of
      reconstruction assistance. In a region that has been plagued with a sad
      history of misuse of past assistance rendered in the wake of natural
      disasters, leaders from the region immediately recognized the need for
      a break with this legacy.

      The approach to enhancing safeguards works at multiple levels. First,
      USAID continues with its standard legislative and regulatory controls
      over the use of U.S. funds. Second, USAID missions in Honduras and
      Nicaragua support the Office of the Comptroller General, which is
      responsible for auditing the expenditures of host country ministries
      and other institutions working on reconstruction. Third, these two
      missions have also worked to design new programs that would strengthen
      host country accountability efforts by improving their procurement
      systems, providing training and improving their ability to audit and
      inspect reconstruction activities, whether those activities used donor
      funds or were funded by their own budget. Finally, in the CACEDRF
      legislation, Congress included funding for the USAID Inspector General
      and for the General Accounting Office (GAO) to conduct audits and
      oversee the implementation of the reconstruction program.

   Country Programs and Highlights

      The impact of Hurricane Georges and Hurricane Mitch differed from
      country to country and the reconstruction program was designed to
      respond to the critical needs that the U.S. Government is best suited
      to address. USAID and other USG agencies, in consultation with host
      country leaders, representatives of local governments, civil society,
      the private sector and other donors, established priorities and
      identified specific activities in an overall reconstruction strategy.
      Country Reports that follow provide highlights on accomplishments to
      date.

      Following passage of the supplemental appropriations legislation, USAID
      notified Congress of its intention to obligate funds with host country
      governments and other implementing institutions in each country. USAID
      notified Congress of all agreements with other USG agencies to carry
      out reconstruction activities with CACEDRF resources. All the required
      notifications and most obligations were completed by September 30,
      1999.

      USAID missions are currently completing grants and contracts with
      implementing partners. In many cases, reconstruction activities have
      already commenced or continue activities that have been funded with
      reprogrammed resources. The total amount of obligations, grants and
      contracts and expenditures is shown below.

   An Explanation of Assistance Accounts

      Foreign aid appropriations are made available through several
      established accounts. Congress provided the bulk of reconstruction
      assistance when it created the new account called the Central America
      and Caribbean Emergency Disaster Recovery Fund (CACEDRF).

      Prior to passage of the supplemental, USAID used other available
      funding to meet the most pressing needs following the hurricanes. Those
      accounts included international disaster assistance funds from which
      OFDA and the Office of Transition Initiatives (OTI) provided funds for
      hurricane relief and reconstruction activities. Emergency food aid,
      supplied by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and managed by USAID,
      was also a critical component of the effort. Finally, funding from
      USAID's ongoing activities, which is appropriated on an annual basis
      through the Development Assistance (DA) and Child Survival (CS)
      accounts, was reprogrammed to meet urgent needs.

      Relief and Reconstruction Funding thru 12/31/99
     __________________________________________________________________

     Home | Privacy | What's New? | Directory | Missions | Employment |
                                  Search
        Have a question or comment about USAID or the USAID website?
         Visit our contact page to find the appropriate resource.
