http://www.strategic.noaa.gov/strategic.pdf

   U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration Strategic Plan A Vision for 2005 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
   September 1998 NOAA Strategic Plan A Vision for 2005 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
   September 1998 Revised from March 1995 Edition US. DEPARTMENT OF
   COMMERCE William M. Daley, Secretary National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration D. James Baker, Under Secretary for Oceans and
   Atmosphere and Administrator Foreword from the Administrator The
   Department of Commerce promotes job creation, economic growth,
   sustainable development, and improved living standards for all
   Americans, by working in partnership with business, universities,
   communities, and workers. The Department s goals are to: build for the
   future and promote U.S. competitiveness in the global marketplace, by
   strengthening and safeguarding the nation s economic infrastructure;
   keep America competitive with cutting-edge science and technology and
   an unrivaled information base; and, provide effective management and
   stewardship of our nation s resources and assets to ensure sustainable
   economic opportunities. As a bureau within the Department, NOAA is an
   integral part of achieving this mission. NOAA s plan for the future is
   a handbook for sustainable development. Economic growth, maintaining a
   quality environment, and wise use of resources must go hand in hand to
   assure a rising standard of living for all Americans. The health of the
   economy depends on the health of the environment. NOAA promotes
   sustainable development by: r Protecting life and property. r Providing
   the environmental information needed by policy makers for decisions. r
   Integrating environmental stewardship and economic development. r
   Redefining the relationship among the Federal government, state and
   local governments and stakeholders. r Reinventing the way government
   does business. The steps necessary to implement our vision are outlined
   in this Executive Summary to NOAA s Strategic Plan for 1995 2005. The
   Strategic Plan was developed by teams comprised of representatives from
   throughout the agency. It builds upon previous efforts which produced
   our seven strategic goals, and incorporates extensive internal and
   external input, review and comment from our employees, customers and
   stakeholders. The vision of this Strategic Plan is woven closely with
   those responsible for its development and implementation. I find this
   quote appropriate: Where there is no vision, the people perish
   (Proverbs 29:18). I believe this is true in NOAA. Likewise, the counter
   also stands without our people, NOAA s vision will perish. With my
   commitment to this Strategic Plan, NOAA is also committed to providing
   a positive workplace supportive of its diversity and equal opportunity
   goals. Since 1995, the Strategic Plan has been updated three times, in
   response to emerging issues and developing programs. As the Strategic
   Plan has matured, improved performance measures have been incorporated.
   I am proud to present this Executive Summary, and would like to
   congratulate the women and men of NOAA, and our academic and industry
   partners, who have made the Strategic Plan a working reality. I
   encourage your comments on the plan and your participation in NOAA s
   exciting future. D. James Baker NOAA Strategic Plan A Vision for 2005
   Vision r Create and disseminate reliable assessments and predictions of
   weather, climate, space environment, ocean and living marine resources,
   For the year 2005, and nautical and geodetic phenomena. NOAA envisions
   a world r Implement integrated approaches to in which societal and
   environmental management and ocean and coastal resources development
   for economic and social economic decisions are health. coupled strongly
   with a r Ensure continuous operational observing capabilities including
   buoys, satellites, ships, comprehensive submersibles and radars.
   understanding of the r Build and use new information networks
   environment. including investing in state-of-the-art computing
   capabilities. r Develop public-private, interagency and The National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration s international partnerships for
   the expansion, mission is to describe and predict changes in the Earth
   s transfer, and archiving of environmental environment, and conserve
   and manage wisely the knowledge and technologies. Nation s coastal and
   marine resources to ensure sustainable economic opportunities. Through
   strategic r Invest in scientific research and the development planning,
   NOAA evaluates how best to accomplish this of new technologies to
   improve current operations mission. The strategic plan provides a
   framework for and prepare for the future. articulating program goals
   and reaching them through consensus. The planning process promotes
   synergy, r Improve NOAA s abilities to serve its customers innovation
   and efficiency. It represents a better way of and forge stronger ties
   with its partners and doing business. stakeholders. NOAA envisions a
   21st century in which environmental stewardship, assessment, and
   prediction serve as keystones to enhancing economic prosperity and
   quality of life, better protecting lives and property, and
   strengthening the U.S. balance of trade. This vision depends on actions
   now that: 1 The Challenge to NOAA NOAA works as an integral part of the
   Department of observations, assessments, predictions and information
   Commerce to further the Nation s capabilities for delivery. The
   Department of Commerce s Natural sustainable development by addressing
   environmental Disaster Reduction Initiative is an end-to-end strategy
   to challenges. As Secretary Daley states, The President and reduce and
   mitigate the impacts of extreme natural events. Vice President all
   members of this Administration NOAA plays an essential role in this
   effort. strongly believe that environmental commitments can complement
   economic objectives. Through far-reaching r Many marine species are
   under stress from a dialogue, healthy debate, and public-private
   partnerships, combination of habitat degradation, we can find
   responsible, cost-effective ways to foster overexploitation and
   competing economic family and community friendly growth .1 Embracing
   this concerns. Some marine mammals, linkage between economic and
   environmental goals has turtles, fish, and other species been a guiding
   principle for NOAA. currently are threatened with extinction. These
   endangered NOAA s historical role has been to predict environmental
   species are critical to the changes, protect life and property, provide
   decision makers maintenance of biodiversity with reliable scientific
   information, manage the nation s and the stability of natural living
   marine resources, and foster global environmental ecosystems. The
   challenge stewardship. Our goals and programs today reflect a is to
   return our living commitment to these basic responsibilities in the
   service marine resources to of our customers and the Nation. healthy
   population levels to enhance opportunities for Over the past 25 years,
   technology and scientific insights future generations. have allowed the
   U.S. to make important strides in understanding and predicting the
   behavior of natural r Dramatic seasonal to systems, in managing
   resources more effectively, and in interannual climate var- improving
   environmental quality. NOAA s sciences and iations in the U.S. have
   services have been fundamental to these accomplishments. been linked to
   the El Niño- Although we are better prepared to address the Southern
   Oscillation environmental challenges of the 21st century, we must
   (ENSO) phenomenon in recognize the unremitting and increasingly complex
   nature the tropical Pacific. Global of these challenges. For instance:
   ENSO-related effects range from severe drought to strong r Our dynamic
   natural surroundings affect life, property storms, with some regions
   and human actions on a daily basis. Short-term experiencing floods and
   landslides environmental events, particularly severe weather, can be
   while others suffer from fires and smoke. socially and economically
   devastating. The ability to Offshore fishing is also affected by the
   change prepare for emergencies and to extend mitigation efforts of
   ocean temperatures resulting from ENSO. NOAA issues depends on the
   quality and timeliness of our observations, seasonal outlooks of
   climate variability based on ENSO assessments, and information
   delivery. The challenge is research, and successfully forecasted the
   1997 1998 El to improve our understanding of the environment to Niño
   six months in advance. However, the ability to minimize its effects on
   human activities. Population improve the accuracy and reliability of
   multi-season growth and economic development are driving the need
   forecasts requires enhanced modeling and incorporation for a
   comprehensive system of environmental of the impacts of other types of
   climate variability, such 2 as decadal variability found in the North
   Atlantic Oscillation make to our economy. U.S. coastal counties are
   growing and the Pacific Decadal Oscillation. The impact of global in
   population at a faster rate than inland counties. Coastal change on
   decadal and seasonal changes must be studied, areas provide essential
   habitats for over 75% of U.S. requiring enhanced process understanding
   and an expanded commercial fisheries landings,2 and serve as the
   foundation observing system. for billions of dollars in economic
   activity, including maritime commerce. In fact, 98% of our
   international r Human activities and natural climatic change in the
   trade by bulk leaves our shores through coastal ports. global
   environment may alter the capacity Unfortunately, rapid population
   growth, development, and of the Earth to sustain life within the next
   pollution in coastal areas have degraded coastal resources century and
   beyond. Atmospheric and economic productivity. For instance, water
   pollution pollution and the thinning of the has repeatedly closed large
   portions of the Nation s ozone layer are two examples of shellfish
   beds. In 1997, beaches were closed or advisories human-induced changes
   for issued against swimming on over 4,000 occasions because which
   governments have of coastal pollution.3 Changing the chemistry of our
   coastal responded strongly oceans has other costly impacts. 51% of the
   Nation s through such measures as estuaries exhibit hypoxic conditions
   each year and 30% the Clean Air Act and the have become anoxic. A
   hypoxic dead zone the size of Montreal Protocol. New Jersey now exists
   in the Gulf of Mexico due in part Another emerging climatic to the
   over-abundance of nutrients and other pollutants trend distinguished by
   its entering Gulf waters via the Mississippi River. Harmful projected
   global con- algal blooms increasing in frequency and duration, may
   sequences is global be responsible for more than $1 billion in losses
   in the last warming. State of the art two decades through direct
   impacts on coastal resources climate models suggest and communities.
   The introduction and spread of alien global temperatures could invasive
   species continues to impact coastal communities rise by 3.5 degrees and
   economies. Utilization of positioning technologies Fahrenheit over the
   next and information has not kept pace with an expanding century and
   significantly volume of maritime traffic, leading to reduced efficiency
   impact agricultural pro- and increased risk of accidents. The challenge
   is to enable ductivity, water supply, sustainable development in the
   coastal zone by maintaining drought conditions, sea level, healthy
   ecosystems, balancing resource use and protection, and other areas. The
   challenge and providing the information and technologies needed to to
   NOAA in understanding air support economic growth. quality,
   stratospheric ozone, and climate variability is to offer highly
   credible NOAA will continue to strengthen the linkage between and
   objective linkages between theory, its economic and environmental
   goals. Such a bond is observations, and climate forecasts for policy
   makers and critical to preserve national and economic security in a
   citizens so they may be in a position to adopt the most constantly
   changing world. NOAA s planning and mission appropriate and informed
   responses. evaluation efforts help define the goals and programs
   necessary to address these challenges. r The National Ocean Conference,
   held in June, 1998, highlighted the critical contributions oceans and
   coasts 3 Achieving NOAA s Vision for 2005 NOAA s Strategic Plan for
   1995 2005 describes the goals and objectives that have been established
   to fulfill its vision. The strategy consists of seven interrelated
   goals. Each goal is a coherent unit, but there also are important
   crosscutting relationships which enable the implementation and
   advancement of national, Department of Commerce, and NOAA objectives.
   The goals are grouped within the two primary missions of Environmental
   Assessment and Prediction and Environmental Stewardship. Environmental
   Assessment Environmental Stewardship and Prediction Mission Mission r
   Advance Short-Term Warning and r Build Sustainable Fisheries Forecast
   Services r Recover Protected Species r Implement Seasonal to
   Interannual Climate Forecasts r Sustain Healthy Coasts r Predict and
   Assess Decadal to Centennial Change r Promote Safe Navigation The
   execution of NOAA s goal-based strategy depends strongly on a stable
   infrastructure and administrative and human resources, as well as on
   the underlying capabilities of the agency as a national resource for
   research, observing systems, and environmental data and information
   services. Teams, comprised of representatives from all parts of NOAA,
   develop the goals, objectives, and plans. NOAA s line offices implement
   the plans and conduct the work needed to achieve these goals, as shown
   in Appendix I and II. Each mission, the seven strategic goals, and NOAA
   s national capabilities are summarized in the following pages. 4
   Environmental Assessment and Prediction Mission Weather is big
   business. It can help or hurt a community. One seventh of our economy
   about $1 trillion a year is weather sensitive. Weather has a serious
   impact on multi-billion dollar industries like tourism, transportation,
   construction and agriculture. U.S. Secretary of Commerce William M.
   Daley4 NEXRAD radar adjacent to 1994 GOES launch. Credit Steve
   Hodanish, NWS, Melbourne, FL. 5 Advance Short-Term Warning and Forecast
   Services Vision. NOAA s vision for 2005 is to provide significantly r
   Improve customer service to the public, improved short-term warning and
   forecast products and emergency managers, the media, and private
   services that enhance public safety and the economic forecast planners
   through effective productivity of the Nation. NOAA will enhance its
   ability communication and utilization of NOAA s to observe, understand,
   and model the environment, and products. effectively disseminate
   products and services to users. Benefits. Increasing our understanding
   of the environment Challenge. Our environment has profound effects on
   through research and investing in new technologies will human welfare
   and economic well being. Each year, provide more accurate and timely
   weather warnings and hundreds of lives and billions of dollars are lost
   due to forecasts required by the Nation. Improved forecasts will severe
   storms, floods and other natural events that can be support management
   of water resources, and help avoid predicted minutes to months in
   advance. NOAA s current flood damage. Extended forecasts of solar and
   ability to predict short-term change is restricted by geomagnetic
   disturbances will increase efficiencies for observations that are
   incomplete in time and space. This space operations, and power
   generation and satellite limits the ability to improve basic
   understanding and communications networks. Advanced modeling techniques
   predictive modeling of weather and other natural and more complete
   observations will reduce uncertainties phenomena. NOAA is committed to
   improving its in hurricane track prediction, saving millions of dollars
   by observing systems, developing a better understanding of avoiding
   unnecessary evacuation costs. Accurate outlooks natural processes, and
   enhancing its of future conditions will predictive models and
   dissemination provide better information systems. for planning weather
   sensitive activities over land Implementation Strategy. The and ocean.
   Critical contri- objectives are: butions to the Admin- istration s
   Natural Disaster r Sustain modernized weather Reduction Initiative will
   be service operations. provided from the research, monitoring and
   operational r Maintain continuous oper- program in this NOAA goal.
   ational satellite coverage critical for warnings and forecasts.
   Improvements associated with the modernized r Strengthen observing and
   weather services has prediction systems through allowed for huge
   dividends. scientific, technological and A cost-benefit analysis by
   programmatic advances, and the National Institute of international
   cooperation. This Standards and Technology objective will be achieved
   by estimated economic bene- incorporating the scientific and fits to
   the Nation to be about technologic advances of the eight times greater
   than the U.S. Weather Research Program Advanced costs involved. The
   Nation Hydrologic Prediction System, Space Weather, should realize
   annual benefits approaching $7 billion from and Upper Air Observing
   System into service the modernization.5 improvements. 6 Implement
   Seasonal to Interannual Climate Forecasts Vision. NOAA, working with
   academic and multinational Implementation Strategy. The objectives are:
   partners, will provide one-year lead-time forecasts of known skill of
   global climate variability, especially El r Implement climate
   prediction systems to deliver Niño and the consequent precipitation and
   surface useful seasonal to interannual climate forecasts temperature
   distributions. These forecasts will increase for the U.S. and
   collaborate in a multinational society s ability to mitigate economic
   losses and social effort to generate and use similar forecasts.
   disruption. r Enhance global observing and data systems required to
   provide data for the initialization and validation of model predictions
   of seasonal to interannual climate variations. r Invest in process and
   modeling research that leads to improved predictability of temperature
   and rainfall distributions. r Assess the impacts of climate variability
   on human activity and economic potential, and improve public education
   so that climate forecasts are understood and acted upon. Benefits. We
   now can predict El Niño events to a level of skill and with enough lead
   time that hundreds of millions of dollars Challenge. The largest
   interannual climate signal that has a year can be saved both in the
   U.S. economy and a degree of predictability is caused by the El
   Niño-Southern abroad. Climate services will be as important to 21st
   Oscillation (ENSO) phenomenon in the Pacific Ocean. century economics
   and societies as weather forecasting Temperature and precipitation
   patterns, changes in ocean is today. Better climate forecasting can
   result in benefits circulation, and changes in storm frequency caused
   by to U.S. agriculture, and ultimately U.S. consumers, of ENSO have
   global effects on economies and planning. more than $300 million
   annually from improved Based on the application of ENSO-related
   research, NOAA agricultural crop decisions.6 For example, the ability
   to has begun issuing monthly and seasonal probability perfectly
   forecast ENSO events one year in advance outlooks for temperature and
   rainfall for up to a year in would permit U.S. corn inventories to
   decline 8 percent, advance. The challenge is to introduce an
   operational with annual savings of nearly $240 million.7 A cost-
   program for the systematic production and application of benefit
   analysis of one NOAA program to understand regionally-tailored climate
   forecasts. Planned actions and model ENSO, the Tropical Ocean Global
   represent an end-to-end integrated approach to establishing Atmosphere
   (TOGA) program, shows a real economic such a system, including the
   multinational infrastructure return on investment of at least 13 26
   percent for U.S. needed to generate and transfer useful climate
   information agriculture alone.8 and forecasts. 7 Predict and Assess
   Decadal to Centennial Change Vision. NOAA and its research partners
   will provide r Guide the rehabilitation of the ozone layer by
   science-based information for decisions regarding providing the
   scientific basis for policy choices decadal-to-centennial changes in
   the global environment, associated with ozone-depleting compounds and
   specifically for: climate change and greenhouse warming; their
   replacements. ozone layer depletion; and air quality improvement. r
   Provide the scientific basis for better air quality Challenge. Our
   planet is a place of natural and human- by improving the understanding
   of high surface induced change. Human activities are now recognized as
   ozone episodes in rural areas and by strengthening impacting climate,
   thinning of the stratospheric ozone the monitoring network to detect
   cleaner air layer, and atmospheric pollution. While these changes
   quality and improving the characterization of increasingly promise to
   impact our societal systems and airborne fine particles. natural
   environments, they challenge the world community to improve its
   prediction and assessment capabilities. r Develop models for the
   prediction of long-term Explanatory environmental models must be
   strengthened climate change (including extreme events and through
   better understanding of the atmospheric and rapid climate changes),
   carry out scientific oceanic processes so that we may meet the
   challenges of assessments, and provide human impacts understanding and
   foreseeing climate variability and long- information. term change in
   approaching decades. Sound economic and social decisions depend upon
   it. Benefits. Nations have committed to eliminating production of
   compounds Implementation Strategy. that deplete the ozone layer The
   objectives are: (Montreal Protocol). Re- search is not only helping r
   Characterize the define the ozone-friendly agents and processes
   replacement compounds, but that force decadal to also documenting that
   the centennial climate recovery of the ozone layer change. is as
   expected. Anticipatory research on global climate r Understand the role
   change supports sustainable of the ocean as a res- development by
   providing ervoir of both heat timely information to society and carbon
   dioxide to make sound decisions to to address a major mitigate against
   or adapt to source of uncertainty changes that can be expected in
   climate models. to occur. The U.S. Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990
   require pollutant emission r Ensure a long-term climate record by
   enhancing reductions to improve the Nation s air quality. New domestic
   and international weather networks, research is pointing to more
   effective ways to meet those observing procedures, and information
   goals, thereby avoiding costly overregulation. Providing management
   systems. Document present and past research results which address key
   scientific uncertainties, changes and variations in the climate system,
   presenting the improvements in understanding in up-to- including
   extreme events, and rapid climate date assessments, and summarizing
   this knowledge in changes, exploiting national and international terms
   relevant to government and industrial leaders are observing networks,
   satellites, and paleoclimatic the cornerstones of environmental
   stewardship. data. 8 Promote Safe Navigation Vision. By 2005, merchant
   positioning, tidal heights and ships, fishing vessels and currents,
   radar and sonar, and recreational boats will safely ply navigational
   aids. our coastal waters, elec- tronically guided by space- r Update
   nautical surveys based navigation and advanced of the Nation s coastal
   areas using information technologies. full-bottom coverage technol-
   NOAA will revolutionize U.S. ogies. marine navigation, mapping and
   surveying and assist com- r Define the national mercial shipping in
   moving shoreline in an accurate and increased cargoes safely and
   consistent manner using state of efficiently into and out of the the
   art technology to serve the Nation s ports and harbors. Nation s
   navigational and coastal NOAA will provide a precise managers.
   satellite derived reference system as the basis for the r Provide
   mariners with Nation s nautical data and real-time observations and
   geographical positioning needs. forecasts of water levels, tides and
   currents, and weather Challenge. Ships have doubled conditions in
   ports. in length, width and draft in the last fifty years and seagoing
   r Transform the obsolete commerce has tripled, leading geodetic
   reference frame into a to increased risk in the nation s ports. Between
   1993 and GPS-based system of monumented marks and 1996, tankers alone
   were involved in 174 groundings, 14 continuously-operating reference
   stations to collisions, and 12 deaths.9 Navigation tools must be
   support the digital revolution in mapping, modernized. Up-to-date
   nautical charts are essential for charting and surveying. the safety of
   life and property and safe and efficient navigation. Approximately 60%
   of NOAA s nautical Benefits. New technology including full-bottom
   nautical charting data were obtained before 1940. Although surveys,
   digital charting, satellite positioning (Global considered to be the
   best available at that time, dramatic Positioning System), and
   real-time observations of tides improvements in efficiency and accuracy
   have been and currents promise to reduce maritime transportation
   realized in the technology used to collect data. Two-thirds risks,
   enhance environmental protections, and heighten of the data used for
   tidal predictions are more than 40 the competitiveness of the U.S.
   shipping industry. With years old. The existing coordinate reference
   system must today s deep-draft container ships, each additional inch be
   renovated to provide the higher accuracy and of underkeel clearance
   translates into as much as tens of accessibility available from the
   Global Positioning System thousands of dollars in additional cargo
   trade in or out of (GPS). the U.S. Newer technologies will result in
   more complete and accurate surveys of the ocean floor and will enable
   Implementation Strategy. The objectives are: the mariner to know the
   ship s precise position relative to charted obstacles as well as its
   depth and underkeel r Build, maintain and deliver a digital nautical
   clearance. These technologies also will support the needs charting
   database to underpin new electronic of coastal zone planners,
   regulatory officials and navigation systems which integrate satellite
   researchers as they work to ensure the safe, sustainable and efficient
   development of our coastal and ocean resources. 9 Environmental
   Stewardship Mission All of these traits hope, creativity, imagination
   will be required to meet the challenges that we face with our oceans.
   But they are, after all, the traits that first enabled and inspired
   explorers to take to the sea. They are traits that allowed us to look
   at our inextricable ties to our environment and invent new ways to
   protect our natural wonders from harm in the last three decades. In the
   21st century, these traits hope, creativity, imagination they must lead
   us to preserve our living oceans as a sacred legacy for all time to
   come. -- President William J. Clinton10 10 Build Sustainable Fisheries
   Vision. NOAA s vision for the next decade is to increase 60 100 greatly
   the Nation s wealth and quality of life through es World fish catch (t)
   90 sustainable fisheries that support fishing communities, 50 eci 80
   safe and wholesome seafood and recreational 70 40 opportunities. ber sp
   Overexploited major fish resources 60 30 50 um (10x6 mt) n 40
   Challenge. Billions of dollars in economic growth, 20 30 Catch
   thousands of jobs and countless recreational fishing mated
   Underexploited major 20 10 opportunities are being wasted as a result
   of overfishing fish resources 10 Esti and overcapitalization in
   commercial and recreational 0 0 1980 1982 1984 1986 1988 1990 1992
   fisheries. While many fisheries are well managed and producing positive
   benefits, others are severely depleted Implementation Strategy. The
   objectives are: or overcapitalized, and must be restored and managed to
   realize their long-term potential. For example, the r Eliminate and
   prevent overfishing and historically important New England groundfish
   fishery overcapitalization. was severely curtailed in 1994 due to the
   collapse of stocks. Transboundary resources can be especially r Attain
   economic sustainability in fishing vulnerable as they require
   international cooperation to communities. achieve effective
   conservation and management. U.S. fisheries are troubled by bycatch,
   including juvenile and r Develop environmentally and economically
   protected marine species, controversial allocation sound marine
   aquaculture. decisions among elements of fishing industries, and
   degradation and loss of essential fish habitat. Benefits. Rebuilding
   and reducing the overcapitalization Uncertainty in scientific
   information makes management in existing fisheries will promote the
   economic and decisions difficult. There is also an increasing domestic
   biological sustainability of U.S. fishing resources, assist and global
   demand for seafood. In order to meet this the commercial fishing
   industry in becoming more growing demand, and in light of the growing
   number competitive internationally, and maintain the viability of wild
   stocks that are overfished or fully utilized, it is of fishing
   communities. Along with economic gains important for the U.S. to
   develop in an environmentally and the rebuilding of living marine
   resources, improved sound manner, an increase in the culture of marine
   fisheries management and conservation will enhance species.
   recreational opportunities and save lives by eliminating the dangerous
   and wasteful race for the fish. By developing environmentally sound
   aquaculture, the increasing demand for seafood can be met with high-
   quality and reliable products without further overfishing and
   overcapitalization of wild populations. 11 Recover Protected Species
   Vision. NOAA s vision is to conserve marine species and to recover
   those in danger of extinction. By 2005, NOAA will be on the road to
   recovering every marine species at risk and maintaining healthy marine
   ecosystems upon which they depend. Challenge. Marine resources
   contribute billions of dollars to the Nation s economy. However, many
   commercial and recreational activities contribute to stress on marine
   species. Many populations of marine organisms are depleted or declining
   due to human activity in marine ecosystems or to unknown causes. For
   example, west coast salmon populations have dramatically declined to
   near extinct levels due to a combination of factors including habitat
   loss and commercial overexploitation. Despite protective measures,
   fishing related mortality continues to threaten marine turtles in U.S.
   waters. Several sea lion and seal populations in Alaska are declining
   rapidly, and the causes are uncertain. Recovery plans have been
   developed for the most endangered species; but implementation plans for
   others, especially for stocks of marine mammals and sea turtles, are
   needed. The desired outcome is to recover protected species in danger
   of r Maintain healthy species and ecosystems. extinction in a manner
   compatible with the sustainable Through an ecosystem approach to marine
   use of marine resources. biodiversity conservation and species
   recovery, NOAA will assess and predict the status of Implementation
   Strategy. The objectives are: protected species and identify barriers
   to their recovery. This supports mandates in the r Reduce the
   probability of extinction for protected Endangered Species Act, Marine
   Mammal species. This will be accomplished through Protection Act, and
   international treaties and cooperative partnerships, development and
   conventions. Actions taken to conserve healthy implementation of
   conservation and recovery or at risk resources will avoid the need for
   listing programs, and research and management actions as protected
   species. to mitigate or avoid detrimental interactions between marine
   species and human activities. Benefits. Through conservation of the
   Nation s living marine resources, NOAA will enhance economic and
   cultural opportunities for future generations. The existence of the
   Marine Mammal Protection Act, the Endangered Species Act and other
   legislation provides a clear indication of public support for strong
   efforts to conserve living marine resources. This effort will enable
   the preservation of marine biodiversity by balancing the utilization of
   natural resources with the management of protected species. Recovering
   species, and avoiding the further decline of others, will contribute to
   the overall health and understanding of marine ecosystems. Improved
   science will lead to better long-term conservation and management
   strategies. 12 Sustain Healthy Coasts Vision. By 2005, the Nation s
   coasts will have more that depend on them. The rapid growth of U.S.
   coastal productive and diverse habitats for fish and wildlife and
   population also leaves people and property increasingly cleaner coastal
   waters for recreation and the production vulnerable to natural
   disasters and coastal hazards of seafood. Coastal communities will have
   thriving, including hurricanes, floods, and tsunamis. Maintaining
   sustainable economies based on well-planned development the health and
   biodiversity of coastal ecosystems requires and healthy coastal
   ecosystems. information, solutions and planning for people to live,
   work and play in ways that sustain, and not destroy, the coastal
   resources that make these areas so productive. Implementation Strategy.
   The objectives are: r Protect, conserve and restore coastal habitats
   and their biodiversity. r Promote clean coastal waters to sustain
   living marine resources and ensure safe recreation, healthy seafood and
   economic vitality. r Foster well-planned and revitalized coastal
   communities that sustain coastal economies, are compatible with the
   natural environment, minimize the risks from nature s hazards, and
   provide access to coastal resources for the Challenge. Our economy is
   increasingly dependent on public s use and enjoyment. coastal
   resources. One in every six U.S. jobs is marine- related and one-third
   of the nation s gross domestic Benefits. Improved understanding of
   coastal systems and product is produced in coastal areas through
   fishing, human impacts will produce better predictions of future
   transportation, recreation and other industries. For conditions. Better
   predictions will produce better example, U.S. coastal tourism and
   recreation industries decisions that ensure that our nation s coasts
   are managed are the largest and fastest growing economic segments of
   wisely for current and future generations. Monitoring, the U.S service
   industry with coastal travel and tourism research, modeling and
   assessments provide NOAA and contributing over $58 billion a year, $7.5
   billion of which our partners with the scientific basis for management
   is generated by foreign visitors. Eighty-five percent of actions that
   reduce costly damages and prevent further all U.S. tourism revenues
   come from coastal states. degradation of coastal resources. Improving
   our ability Seventy-five percent of all marine commercial fisheries to
   plan and mitigate for natural hazards will reduce both species depend
   on coastal estuaries as nurseries and the economic and environmental
   costs associated with feeding grounds. These industries depend on
   healthy these events. Providing stakeholders with access to this
   coastal environments to survive. The rapid growth of information will
   enhance appreciation for the role coastal coastal populations and
   increasing demands for access to resources play in our daily lives, and
   increase coastal areas have destroyed many coastal habitats,
   understanding of the role each of us can play in sustaining polluted
   coastal waters, and produced significant changes our precious coastal
   areas. Through these and other in the biology and chemistry of coastal
   areas. Over 50% activities, NOAA assists federal, state, and local
   resource of the U.S. population now lives on a coast, and 3,600
   managers in protecting, managing, and restoring our vital people are
   added to coastal communities every day.11 coastal assets. NOAA works to
   provide the science and Habitat loss, harmful algal blooms, polluted
   beaches, solutions to reduce costs and sustainably balance contaminated
   shellfish beds, and hypoxic dead zones economic and environmental needs
   of the nation s coastal are signs that human impacts can degrade
   coastal areas. ecosystems and threaten the communities and economies 13
   National Capabilities and Supporting Infrastructure NOAA s assets
   include: The successful execution of NOAA s missions and goals Research
   depends on our capabilities as a Research is the foundation upon which
   NOAA will meet national resource for research, its environmental
   stewardship and environmental assessment and prediction visions by the
   year 2005. A observing systems, and strong research capability ensures
   continuity and environmental data and improvements of services,
   provides the knowledge and information services; and on technical base
   to integrate science in support of resource management, and enables
   NOAA to meet emerging our supporting infrastructure. national needs.
   NOAA must continue to invest in these capabilities, which NOAA
   maintains its world renowned and respected scientific capabilities
   through complementary intramural serve as the foundation of our and
   extramural research programs. NOAA s partnerships programs. with
   government agencies, academia, private sector, and the international
   science community allows the Agency to consistently optimize its return
   on its research investments. Through a rigorous peer review process,
   NOAA and NOAA-sponsored research remains at the forefront of scientific
   inquiry and the development of new environmental technologies. NOAA
   research pioneered the development of technologies for modernized
   weather service operations in the 1990s; it has enabled the U.S. to
   launch a new era of climate forecasting; and it has delivered the
   improved understandings of coastal, ocean, and atmospheric systems for
   improved resource management. NOAA s research capabilities include the
   people and facilities of the Environmental Research Laboratories,
   Fisheries Science Centers, Cooperative and Joint Academic Institutes,
   the Office of Global Programs, the Coastal Ocean Science Program, the
   National Sea Grant College Program, the National Undersea Research
   Program and other research components throughout the Agency. In all
   areas, Earth and space weather, climate, fisheries, habitat, marine and
   coastal processes, and air quality, NOAA research contributes directly
   to America s and the world s prosperity. 14 in an exponential increase
   in the rate at which data are Observing Systems acquired. Sophisticated
   handling will be required to The most fundamental NOAA activity is the
   description ensure timely and useful data products. NOAA must of the
   physical, chemical, and biological properties of transmit observations
   to many locations for analysis and the Earth and its environments. A
   sound observational integration, process the observations into useful
   and monitoring capability is vital to the success of NOAA information
   products, and disseminate these products to and the Nation. NOAA s
   vision for the 21st century is of users. a modern, integrated and
   comprehensive system of observing platforms and networks to provide the
   quality There is hardly a sector of the U.S. economy that does data and
   information needed to support NOAA and not rely to some extent on NOAA
   data and information national goals. services. Electronic dissemination
   of NOAA data and information has increased dramatically in recent
   years, NOAA observes environmental conditions in locations and is
   expected to continue to increase with the growing ranging from outer
   space to the ocean bottom, and places public demand for on-line access
   to government a high priority on the continuity of observations.
   information. NOAA is implementing network architecture Observations are
   made from instrumented platforms such that will provide the agency and
   the public with high- as satellites, aircraft, ships, buoys, and
   submersibles. quality network management, reliability, security, and
   Observing networks include radars, radiosonde stations, service. In the
   future, NOAA s Virtual Data System will tide gauges, water level
   stations, volunteer weather provide seamless access to all NOAA data.
   NOAA s observers, and numerous other systems monitoring a broad system
   of environmental information services is an spectrum of oceanic and
   atmospheric variables. NOAA essential link in the chain leading to
   informed policy is constantly designing, developing, testing and
   deploying decisions. new observing systems to improve its ability to
   monitor the environment. NOAA leverages its observing capabilities by
   cooperating with federal and state agencies, academic institutions,
   foreign governments, and international organizations. This cooperation
   includes data exchange agreements, technology sharing, integrated
   planning, and merged assets. Environmental Data and Information
   Services Services involving the acquisition, archiving, integration,
   and dissemination of environmental data and information are critical to
   the fulfillment of NOAA s strategic goals. NOAA maintains the largest
   environmental data archives in the world. New observational systems now
   becoming operational will result Photo: Linda Straton, PMEL 15
   Supporting Infrastructure NOAA s supporting infrastructure consists of
   its facilities, administrative services, and public and educational
   services. All of these resources are essential to furthering the agency
   s strategic goals. NOAA s greatest assets are its people. NOAA is
   committed to being the model employer of a talented, dedicated and
   effective workforce that reflects the Nation s diversity. This includes
   the creation of a supportive work environment that encourages a respect
   for, and appreciation of, individual differences. As all Government
   agencies streamline operations, workforce skill mix becomes
   increasingly crucial. By 1999, NOAA will have reduced its workforce by
   13.6% from the 1993 level. To ensure quality and performance, while
   improving efficiency, NOAA must continue to invest in the training and
   education of its employees, make strategic hires, and implement
   innovative management practices. Finally, NOAA must build and maintain
   facilities that are safe, energy efficient and in compliance with
   applicable laws and regulations. Facilities and sites requiring
   environmental remediation must be restored. 16 The Strategic Planning
   and Budgeting Process NOAA conducts its strategic planning and
   budgeting activities according to an annual cycle. The cycle ensures
   the alignment of NOAA s strategic and programmatic objectives. It
   directs activities that allow the agency to plan, budget, and
   continuously verify and In the long run, we have to validate
   performance. This cycle allows NOAA to play build agencies and a a key
   role in the Department of Commerce strategic planning efforts.
   congressional committee structure that work more Planning involves
   Teams comprised of representatives on horizontal than vertical from all
   parts of the agency. The Teams are active throughout the strategic
   planning and budgeting cycle. lines. Partnerships and fluid From the
   Strategic Plan, the Teams create a 5-Year organizations are the key
   Implementation Plan. The Implementation Plan is updated yearly to
   maintain a realistic, yet challenging because networks not transitional
   course toward our vision for 2005. hierarchies define Programmatic
   priorities, level of accomplishments, and performance throughout the
   year are taken into government in the 21st consideration in developing
   policy guidelines, and in Century. This will be a establishing key
   milestones and performance measures. NOAA s leadership, Assistant
   Administrators, and difficult step. This means Program and Staff Office
   Directors utilize the working across agency milestones and performance
   measures to track progress toward meeting strategic goals and to
   formulate and boundaries blurring them update annual budget requests,
   one-year Operating into virtual organizations Plans, and performance
   plans. where the customer doesn't NOAA updates its Strategic Plan as
   required. Goals have to care which agency is and objectives are
   reaffirmed or modified based on delivering the service. This changing
   national needs, scientific and technological advances, and customer
   input. NOAA seeks extensive means agencies have to define internal and
   external participation in reviewing and common goals as we are updating
   the Strategic Plan. Annual workshops are held to update our
   constituents and to solicit their input doing in ecosystem on the
   agency s future direction. This helps ensure that management. our
   goals, objectives and performance reflect the needs and expectations of
   the customers we serve. Vice President Al Gore12 17 Appendix I. NOAA
   Line/Program Offices and Assistant Administrators/Program Directors
   Line/Program Office Assistant Administrator NESDIS National
   Environmental Satellite, Data and Information Service Robert S. Winokur
   NMFS National Marine Fisheries Service Rolland A. Schmitten NOS
   National Ocean Service Nancy Foster NWS National Weather Service John
   J. Kelly OAR Oceanic and Atmospheric Research David Evans Appendix II.
   Primary Line/Program Office participation mapped to strategic goals,
   and designated team leads. Goal Line/Program Office Advance Short-Term
   Warning and Forecast Services NWS, NESDIS, OAR, NOS Team Lead: Louis
   Uccellini, NWS Implement Seasonal to Interannual Climate Forecasts NWS,
   OAR, NESDIS, NOS Team Lead: Ants Leetmaa, NWS Predict and Assess
   Decadal to Centennial Change OAR, NESDIS, NOS, NWS Team Leads: Dan
   Albritton, OAR, Tom Karl, NESDIS Promote Safe Navigation NOS, OAR,
   NESDIS Team Lead: Nick Prahl, NOS Build Sustainable Fisheries NMFS,
   NOS, OAR, NESDIS Team Lead: Gary Matlock, NMFS Recover Protected
   Species NMFS, OAR, NESDIS Team Lead: Phil Williams, NMFS Sustain
   Healthy Coasts NOS, NMFS, OAR, NESDIS Team Lead: Margaret Davidson, NOS
   18 Appendix III. Citations 1. Secretary Daley s Remarks at the
   Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trading Policy Forum, June 20, 1997. U.S. DoC.
   2. Habitat Protection Activity Report 1991 1993, August 1994. U.S.DoC,
   NOAA, NMFS, Office of Habitat Protection, p. 9. 3. Testing the Waters
   1998: Has your Vacation Beach Cleaned Up Its Act? Natur. Res. Def.
   Council, 1998. 4. Secretary Daley s Remarks at the Press Conference on
   the Spring Flood Outlook/Natural Disaster Reduction Initiative,
   Alexandria, Virginia. March 3, 1998. U.S. DoC. 5. Benefits/Cost Study
   for the Modernization and Associated Restructuring of the National
   Weather Service, 1991. U.S.DoC, National Institute of Standards and
   Technology. 6. The Value of Improved ENSO Prediction to U.S.
   Agriculture. 1998. Solow, A.R., Adams, R.R., Bryant, K.J., Legler,
   D.M., O Brien, J.J., McCarl, B.A., Nayda, W., and R. Weiher. Climate
   Change 39:47 60. 7. The Value of El Niño Forecasts in Agricultural
   Commodity Markets: The Case of U.S. Corn. McNew, K. Report to NOAA,
   U.S. DoC. January, 1998. 8. Cost Benefit Analysis of the TOGA and the
   ENSO Observing System, in: Operational Oceanography. The Challenge for
   European Cooperation. Sassone, P.G. with R. F. Weither. Elsevier
   Science. 1997. 9. No Safe Harbor; Tanker Safety in America s Ports,
   1990. National Resources Defense Council. 10. President Clinton s
   Remarks at the National Ocean Conference, Monterey, CA, June 12, 1998.
   11. 50 years of Population Change Along the Nation s Coasts, 1960 2010.
   1990. Coastal Trends Series, Report 2. U.S. DoC, NOAA, National Ocean
   Service. 12. Vice President Albert Gore s Remarks at the Government
   Performance and Results Act Conference. April 23, 1998. 19 U. S.
   DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Exhibit 1 to DOO 25-5 NATIONAL OCEANIC &
   ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION Under Secretary for Oceans & Atmosphere &
   Administrator Assistant Secretary for Oceans & Atmosphere & Deputy
   Administrator Deputy Under Secretary for Oceans & Atmosphere . Public &
   Constituent Affairs . Finance & Administration . Sustainable
   Development & Chief Scientist of NOAA . Systems Acquisition
   Intergovernmental Affairs Counsellor to the Under Secretary . Program
   Coordination . Policy & Strategic Planning Deputy Assistant Secretary
   for . High Performance Computing . Legislative Affairs Oceans &
   Atmosphere & Communications . International Affairs Deputy Assistant
   Secretary for . Military Affairs . General Counsel International
   Affairs . Federal Coordinator for . NOAA Corps Operations Naval & Air
   Force Deputies Meteorology 20 National Marine Fisheries National Ocean
   Service Oceanic & Atmospheric National Weather National Environmental
   Satellite, Service Research Service Data, & Information Service
   Assistant Administrator Assistant Administrator Ocean Services and
   Assistant Administrator Assistant Administrator Assistant Administrator
   Fisheries Coastal Zone Management Oceanic & Atmospheric Research
   Weather Services Satellite & Information Services . Sustainable
   Fisheries . Coast Survey . NOAA Undersea Research . Meteorology .
   Satellite Operations . Protected Resources . Aeronautical Charting &
   Program . Hydrology . Satellite Data Processing & . Habitat
   Conservation Cartography . National Sea Grant College . AWIPS Program
   Distribution . Science & Technology . National Geodetic Survey Program
   . Systems Operations . Research & Applications . Ocean Resources .
   Global Programs . Systems Development . Systems Development
   Conservation & Assessment . Environmental Research . National Centers
   for . National Climatic Data Center . Ocean & Coastal Laboratories
   Environmental Prediction . National Oceanographic Data Resources
   Management . NWS Training Center Center . Coastal Ocean Program .
   National Data Buoy Center . National Geophysical Data Center . 6
   Regions Proposed NOA-9807.OPX July 1998 Copies of this document are
   available from: Office of Policy and Strategic Planning National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Room 5805, Herbert C. Hoover
   Building 14th & Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20230
   Telephone (202) 482-5916 Fax: (202) 501-3024
