http://marshalltv.msfc.nasa.gov/about.html

                     Marshall TV Home  [line-top2.gif]
                                      Top Navigation Bar
                                       [line_top.gif]

                          Visit our What's New page

                        Marshall Multimedia Services

                                   spacer
                               Other Services

                                Presentation
                                  Resources

                                 Live Shots

                                DVD Services

                                     FAQ

                                 Contact Us

   seperator

                         Broadcasting Industry News

                               Top Media News

                               Digital TV News

                                  seperator

   Special Note to Our Customers and Clients: Building 4207 Parking UPDATE



                              About Marshall TV

           Pictures of the past, present and future of Marshall TV

                                    Past

     Gemini Picture The year was 1965. America watched on TV, as NASA
     sent up astronauts two-by-two aboard Gemini spacecraft. In
     Huntsville, however, two former broadcasters working for a Marshall
     Center contractor had their eyes set on launching another type of
     television operation and soon "Marshall TV" would be officially
     On-the-Air.

     It was the brainchild of RCA engineers H. R. "Randy" Propst and
     William Landry, Marshall TV's first employees.

     State-of-the-art, Marshall TV was not -- not at first anyway. It
     started with just a black and white (Marconi) camera and an (Ampex
     VR-1000 2") tape recorder. The tape machine and an (Altec)
     amplifier/mixer were mounted in a semi-trailer. The camera was
     stored in Marshall's Quality department. A week's notice was
     required in order to bring the camera and the van together!

     NASA Public Affairs Officer Roy Marcato later joined the team as the
     only production staff member. The main projects then were taping
     rocket engine test firings. But, only five tests could be archived
     at a time. There was a simple reason for this: they only owned five
     of those new things called videotapes.

     Another former broadcaster and NASA Communications Branch Chief, E.
     D. Hildreth, worked with the fledgling team to get Marshall TV
     "officially" established. Hildreth took the contractors' idea and
     pushed it all the way to Marshall's first center director, Dr.
     Wernher von Braun.

                              Von Braun Picture

                  Von Braun: Early Supporter of Marshall TV

     Famed rocket pioneer, and the Marshall Center's first director, Dr.
   Wernher von Braun was keenly aware of the power of television, and was
               quick to support the formation of Marshall TV.

     Click here to listen to Dr. von Braun's "Castles in the Air" quote
                                   (116k)
                                     or
   Click here to listen to Dr. von Braun's "Dancing Slippers" quote (220k)

     Six months later, the two contractors were called into Hildreth's
     office and were told that they would be the lead engineers on
     developing a TV studio at the Marshall Space Flight Center. A
     document called " Technical Service Request A100" issued, in 1966,
     made Marshall TV official.

     Marshall TV's studio has always been located in MSFC's
     Communications Center, building 4207. For those familiar with the
     building, the studio was at first where the Customer Support Center
     is now. After about two years of renovation and expansion, the
     studio and other Marshall TV operations moved northward down the
     hall into the same general area where they are located now. At the
     same time, new and more plentiful equipment started rolling in.

     Apollo 7 Launch Marshall TV acquired two more tape machines, a major
     investment at the time. Still they only had one camera and just five
     tapes. Marshall TV entered a new era with the launch of Apollo 7 on
     May 11, 1968. The team began recording and microwaving video of the
     launches from the Cape. It was about this time that they finally
     traded-in the old (Marconi) camera for two new black & white (RCA
     TK) cameras, and the Marshall Test Division donated fifteen (helical
     scan 2") tape machines. By the way, Apollo 7 was also the first U.S.
     space mission to transmit live television from orbit.

     Marshall TV became a high profile priority. But, it was more than
     two people could handle. So, accomplished audio engineer Jerry
     Thrasher was brought onboard. Dallas Thomas, formerly with WSM-TV in
     Nashville, was hired as the first TV producer.

     The main function of Marshall TV was to record missions and visits
     by dignitaries (like President John F. Kennedy and Walt Disney).
     That role was expanded in the early 1970s when Marshall TV produced
     a weekly half-hour program that was broadcast by a local TV station.

     STS Launch In the late 70s, the Shuttle Program was coming on-line,
     and more TV engineers and technicians were hired to cover these
     tests. Dan Akins, who had previously been with a local television
     station, was hired as the first Executive Producer.

     By the mid-80s the production side of the house was beefed up, and
     Marshall TV started on its path to become the leading edge
     production facility that it is today. (Historical background
     information provided by H.R. "Randy" Propst.)

                                   Present

     The inside of teh Spacelab Today, Marshall TV is involved in all
     sorts of projects from simple tape duplications to complete
     script-to-screen video productions and live event programming. In
     recent years, Marshall TV branched out into the multimedia arena.
     This includes the creation of interactive multimedia, and 3-D
     animations.

     The team is made up of about two dozen of the finest and most
     talented producers, writers, editors, engineers, videographers,
     graphic artists, animators and multimedia professionals in the
     business. To best meet the needs of their space program clients, the
     team is equipped with some of the latest state-of-the-art tools
     available for creating the highest quality professional content.

     Recently, Marshall TV has been involved in producing videos and/or
     multimedia programs for such high reaching projects as:

       * Space Shuttle
       * International Space
       * Station Space Launch
       * Initiative NASA Safety
       * Microgravity Scienc

                                 * Space Observatories
                                 * NASA CONNECT Educational TV Series
                                 * Advanced Space Transportation Program
                                 * And many more

     ISS Artist Concept Marshall TV is also producing a series of
     interactive multimedia CD-ROMS for Onboard Computer Training for use
     by future ISS astronaut crews. These CDs will instruct crewmembers
     on the procedures of different facilities and experiments and teach
     them step-by-step how to repair and/or replace space station
     components.

     Far different from its initial role, Marshall TV's modern mission
     evolved into one of an award-winning, full-service production
     facility. Proven leaders in such areas as documentaries, video
     files, video news releases, and space mission television coverage,
     Marshall TV crews have traveled around the world in support of their
     customers. The team's work has been honored numerous times by
     international peers and colleagues.

                                   Future

     The future of space exploration is exciting, and Marshall TV will
     continue to grow and evolve along with NASA in the 21st Century.

     Marshall TV's future includes a fiber optic network for server
     storage of digital media, a conversion to digital video, adoption of
     the HDTV standard (with a 16x9 aspect ratio, or screen orientation)
     and more. For the less technically minded, Marshall TV is poised to
     carry on it's modern tradition of riding the leading edge of
     communications capabilities.

     Already Marshall TV is playing a significant role in the future as
     they work closely with colleagues that are developing whole new
     vehicles to safely and affordably "bring people to space. Bring
     space to people".

     As humanity strives for a permanent presence in space, return
     ventures to the Moon, faster, cheaper and better ways to produce
     rocket power, journeys to Mars and beyond, Marshall TV will be there
     and bring the experiences back to you.

     Stay tuned!

       footer image left             footer image right
              Home ~ About ~ Awards ~ Services ~ Other Services
       Presentation Resources ~ Live Shots ~ DVD Services ~ Contact Us
             FAQ ~ Broadcast News ~ Media News ~ Digital TV News
                Internet Delivery Services ~ Imaging Services
