http://atlanta.fbi.gov/contact/fo/atlanta/employmt.htm

      FBI - Atlanta



   Home
   Press Releases
   Office Locations
   FBI's Most Wanted - Atlanta
   Partnerships
   Community Info
   Employment
   Atlanta Major Cases





                              EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION


   Career opportunities with the FBI include the Special Agent position
   and numerous Professional Support positions.  To qualify for any FBI
   position, you must be a U.S. citizen and successfully pass a polygraph,
   urinalysis, and rigorous background investigation.  All Special Agent
   and most support positions require at least a bachelor's degree in a
   specified field of study.  For more information on FBI employment
   opportunities please visit the FBI Employment Page.

   Professional Support Positions

   To download an application for a specific Professional Support vacancy
   or to obtain information on FBI employment policies and practices,
   please visit the FBI's Support Employment/Vacancies Page.

   For information on Professional Support positions in the Atlanta
   Division or on applications that have already been submitted, please
   contact:

               Pamela Young, Staffing Assistant, 404-679-6274



   Special Agent Positions

   The application process for the FBI Special Agent position is lengthy.
   The nationwide average processing time is nine months.   For
   information on the requirements for the Special Agent position, please
   visit the FBI's employment page.

   If you reside, work full-time, or attend school full-time in the state
   of Georgia, and would like to discuss your competitiveness for the
   Special Agent position, please contact:

         Special Agent Regional Recruiter, C.W. Saari, 404-679-9000



   Special Agent Application Processing

   For information on an application that has already been submitted for
   the Special Agent position, please contact:

    Special Agent Applicant Coordinator, Maggie Lewis Smith, 404 679-3063


   FBI Honors Internship Program

   The FBI hires approximately 100 interns each summer to work at FBI
   headquarters in Washington D.C.  The application process is extremely
   competitive.  The process begins in September of each year and interns
   are selected in December.  Completed applications, with all required
   supportive documents, must be received no later than November 1st.  For
   more information on the FBI Honors Internship Program, please visit the
   FBI's Employment Page.

   If you reside, work full-time, or attend school full-time in the state
   of Georgia, and would like to discuss your competitiveness for the
   Honors Internship Program, please contact:

         Special Agent Regional Recruiter, C.W. Saari, 404-679-9000



   FBI Atlanta Job Information Line

   The FBI Atlanta Job Information Line (404-679-6400) provides recorded
   information regarding the applicant drug policy and the requirements
   for Special Agent, Professional Support, and Specialty positions.
   Employment candidates may also request an application via mail.


       Use of the FBI initials, seal, and badge are restricted by law.

                 FBI HOME PAGE            FBI FIELD OFFICES
