http://visibleearth.nasa.gov/about.html

   Visible Earth Navigation Bar

     MISSION
   The purpose of NASA's Visible Earth is to provide a consistently
   updated, central point of access to the superset of NASA's Earth
   science-related images, animations, and data visualizations. These
   images are considered to be public domain and, as such, are freely
   available to the interested public-at-large, the media, scientists, and
   educators for re-use and/or re-publication. Credit and caption
   information is already provided in the metadata for all the materials
   within the Visible Earth. At the very minimum, credit must be given to
   NASA for use of these materials.

   SPONSORS
   The Visible Earth was originally developed by Kevin Ward, and is
   currently managed and maintained by Tara Hess. In the development of
   this site, special thanks goes to Nick Burke, Theresa Held, Mike Heney,
   David Herring, Michael King, Mike McGunigale, Horace Mitchell, Robert
   Simmon, Barbara Summey, and Theo Williams. The primary sponsors for
   this site are the EOS Project Science Office, the EOS Program Office,
   the Terra and Aqua Missions, the NASA Goddard Scientific Visualization
   Studio, the GLOBE Program, and the NASA Center for Computational
   Sciences (NCCS). We are grateful for the guidance and sponsorship
   provided by each of these organizations without which this site would
   not be possible. We also sincerely thank all of the NASA, and
   affiliated, organizations that contribute such outstanding visual
   materials for publication within the Visible Earth.

   Please address any comments to hess@climate.gsfc.nasa.gov

   AWARDS

   USA Today Hot Site
   September 19, 2000 Scientific American Sci/Tech Web Awards 2001
   May 14, 2001 Selected by the sciLINKS program, a service of the
   National Science Teachers Association. Copyright 2001
   June 11, 2001
   GovSpot.com Site of the Week Award
   June 18, 2001 2001 Approved By NASA Earth Science Enterprise

     Visible Earth Home | Browse | Search | Help/Copyright | About Visible
     Earth
