http://www.wssb.wa.gov/K-2nd.htm

   link to Access Washington home page

Washington State School for the Blind

A Washington State Agency
Nationally accredited through the Northwest Association of Schools and
Colleges
Member of the Council of Schools for the Blind (COSB).

Skip Navigation


   Home

   School Information

   Administration

   On Campus Programs

   Orientation & Mobility

   Resources

   School Board

   Residential

   School Foundation

   Technology

   Media Center

   The Lions Roar

   Student Information

   Activity Calendar

   2001-2002
   School Calendar

   Parent Representative

   In The Classroom

   Grades K-2^nd

   Middle School

   U.S. History

   Pacific Northwest History

   Journalism

   Art

   Music

   Science

   Math

   English

   Quest

   Fit for Life Program

   Statewide Services

   Outreach Services

   Braille Access Center

   Instructional Resource Center

   General Information

   Employment Opportunities

   Contact Information

   Staff pages
   (WSSB Staff Only)

Elementary School Program

Grades K-2^nd

Overview

   The Kindergarten through second grade students spend most of their day
   in Room 6 with their primary teacher, Dawn Hooks, and the teaching
   assistant, Boni Moran.  Here, they learn literacy, math, social
   studies, science and compensatory skills such as Braille, low vision
   skills, social skills, and self-help skills.

   The students also have classes with therapists and instructors that
   specialize in certain areas.  They attend classes for fitness, music,
   daily living skills, group speech, library, and art.  As needed,
   students also have pull-outs for speech and language therapy,
   additional Braille instruction, physical and occupational therapy,
   music therapy, and orientation and mobility lessons.

About the Teacher

   Dawn Hooks is the Kindergarten through second grade teacher at the
   Washington State School for the Blind.  She is certified in three areas
   special education, elementary education (K-8^th grade), and early
   childhood education (P - 3^rd).  She has been teaching since 1994.

   In 1994, Dawn Hooks graduated from the teaching program at Concordia
   University in Portland, Oregon.  She began her teaching career as an
   elementary teacher in Tacoma, WA.  In 1998, she relocated to Illinois
   in order to attend graduate school at Northern Illinois University.
   While attending graduate school, Dawn Hooks worked part time as an
   itinerant teacher of the visually impaired for Northern Illinois
   Association.  After completing their program for Teachers of the
   Visually Impaired, she graduated with a Masters of Science in Education
   in December of 1999.  In January of 2000 she moved back to Washington
   to work for the Washington State School for the Blind.

   Dawn Hooks lives in Vancouver with her husband and two cats.  She is
   married to Michael Hooks, a high school teacher at the Washington State
   School for the Blind.  In her free time, she enjoys reading, painting,
   and going out for coffee.  She loves her job.

Elementary School Program

MATH

   Students develop basic concept in math, applying the learning to their
   everyday lives.  They use appropriate manipulatives together with the
   abacus and Braille and/or print.
   Course Goal:  During the course of the year, students will develop
   their math skills.

   Course Objectives:  Students will receive instruction and practice in
   the following areas:

   KINDERGARTEN LEVEL
   Counting with one-to-one correspondence

   Making sense of story problems that involve combining and separating by
   acting them out and retelling them

   Using pictures, numbers, or words to record solutions to a problem, to
   represent quantities, and to record number combinations

   Collecting, recording, and representing data in a variety of ways (4.1,
   4.2, 4.3)

   Developing vocabulary to name and describe 2-D and 3-D shapes and their
   attributes

   Reading, writing, and sequencing numbers to 10

   Becoming familiar with combinations of numbers up to about 8

   Describing and comparing lengths through direct comparison

   GRADE 1 LEVEL
   Developing strategies for solving combining and separating story
   problems

   Recording strategies using pictures, numbers, and words

   Collecting, sorting, categorizing, recording, and describing data for
   problem solving

   Observing, describing, and comparing 2-D and 3-D shapes and their
   characteristics

   Reading, writing, and sequencing numbers to 100

   Counting to 100 by 2s, 5s, and 10s

   Finding combinations of numbers up to about 20

   Adding and subtracting two-digit numbers without renaming

   Describing and comparing weights, capacities, and lengths through
   direct comparison and by measuring with nonstandard units

   Using math in daily lives including identifying and counting coins and
   telling time to the half hour

   GRADE 2 LEVEL
   Solving story problems

   Collecting, recording, comparing, interpreting, and representing data

   Composing and decomposing 2-D and 3-D shapes

   Recognizing and labeling fractions in halves, thirds, and fourths

   Read, write, and sequence numbers to 999

   Knowing addition and subtraction facts and processes to 18 and knowing
   about multiplication

   Developing strategies (including regrouping) for adding and subtracting
   numbers to 99

   Measuring in nonstandard units

   Using math in daily lives including identifying and counting coin
   values to $1.00 and telling time to the quarter hour and in 5 minute
   intervals (5.3)

   Texts and Materials:  Investigations in Number, Data, and Space
   Curriculum for Grades 1 and 2, Math by All Means Supplementary lessons,
   Every Day Counts Calendar Math Grade 1

Year Overview:

   Daily: Calendar activities will focus on time, money, graphing, and
   number sense

   Weeks 1-5:  Mathematical Thinking

   Weeks 6-12:  The Number System

   Weeks 13-15:  Collecting, Sorting, and Classifying Data

   Weeks 16-21:  Geometry and Fractions

   Weeks 22-28:  Addition and Subtraction

   Weeks 29-31:  Measuring

   Weeks 32-34: Collecting and Representing Data

   Weeks 35-37:  Time

LITERACY

   After a Learning Media Assessment has been completed, the students
   learn appropriate reading or pre-reading skills.  Braille and large
   print is available throughout the classroom for labeling and reading
   materials.  Students are provided with appropriate accommodations,
   including lighting, necessary print size, reading stands, etc.

   Course Goal:  During the course of the year, students will develop
   their reading and writing skills.

   Course Objectives:  Students will receive instruction and practice in
   the following areas:

   GUIDED READING
   Build comprehension and fluency with reading

   Learn about a variety of text forms and text features

   Develop knowledge of authors craft

   Use strategies to develop understanding while reading and listening

   Make inferences

   WORKING WITH WORDS
   Read, spell, and use high frequency words correctly

   Learn patterns necessary for decoding and spelling

   SELF SELECTED READING BLOCK
   Select books

   Appreciate different types of text

   Build fluency and confidence as readers

   Share reading experience

   WRITING SKILLS
   Apply the five step writing process: prewriting, drafting, revising,
   editing, and publishing.

   Learn and refine skills in the six strands of writing: organization,
   idea, voice, sentence fluency, word choice, and conventions

   Practice descriptive writing, narrative writing, and expository writing

   Texts and Materials:  Literature Works Curriculum by Silver Burdett
   Ginn for Grades for grades K-2, Four Blocks Literacy Model

   Year Overview:   Students will spend 20-30 minutes per day on each of
   the Four Blocks:

   The Guided Reading Block includes a comprehension skill focus, student
   reading with teacher, and a closure activity.

   The Working with Words Block includes word introduction/review and a
   decoding/spelling activity.

   The Writing Block includes a writing mini-lesson, student writing and
   conferencing, and student sharing from the Authors Chair.

   The Self-Selected Reading Block includes teacher read-aloud,
   independent reading and conferencing, and sharing.

SOCIAL STUDIES

   An important emphasis for the social studies program is appropriate
   social and interactive skills.  The QUEST curriculum, a service of
   Lions Clubs International, is used throughout the year and integrated
   in each day.  Students also engage in a weekly group speech lesson with
   the school speech and language pathologist.  Other social studies
   topics are a focus during the first and third quarter of the school
   year.

   Course Goal:  During the course of the year, students will develop
   their knowledge of social studies.

   Course Objective: Students will receive instruction and practice

   Quest
   Feel comfortable and valued as a member of the classroom and school
   community

   Use interpersonal skills in relating to others

   Learn how to make positive and responsible decisions and say no to
   harmful ones

   Value and respect self and others

   Participate in a service learning project

   Career
   Identify why people have jobs

   Identify various jobs that are part of the community

   Develop an awareness of job tasks associated with common jobs

   Identify types of tools/clothing associated with community jobs

   Develop an awareness of jobs held by family members

   Native Americans
   Recognize cultural differences and interactions

   Learn about history and the meaning of some of our holidays

   Neighborhoods
   Read maps of a neighborhood

   Know geography of a neighborhood

   Know how a neighborhood is part of the community, state, nation

   Understand the purpose of rules and laws

   Be aware of the voting process/elections

   Explore the rights and responsibilities of citizens

   Transportation
   Identify modes of transportation

   Identify similarities/differences with the following types of travel:
   plane, ferry, train

   Develop an awareness of the history of travel

   Develop an awareness of the careers associated with travel

   Texts and/or material: Quest curriculum and variety

   Semester Overview:
   Quarter 1:  People Around Us Friends and Families

   Week 1-2:  Quest unit one, Building a School Community

   Week 3-4:  Quest unit two, Growing as a Group

   Week 5-6:  Native American unit.

   Quarter 3:  Places Around Us -- Neighborhoods

   Week 19-21:  Valentine Town Neighborhoods unit

   Week 22-23:  Going Places Transportation unit

   Week 24-25:  Stone Fox or more from the transportation unit

   Week 26: QUEST

   Quest units/lessons may also be covered throughout the year.

SCIENCE

   Hands-on experiences are the focus of the science program.  Science is
   integrated in calendar and math activities throughout the year.  During
   the second and fourth quarter, the students will engage in daily
   hands-on science activities.

   Course Goal:  During the course of the year, students will develop
   their science skills and knowledge.

   Course Objective: Students will observe and detail the following:

   Organisms Life Science
   Similarities in living things

   Differences between plants and animals

   Individual differences within a species

   Changes Physical Science
   Expand understanding of solids, liquids, and gasses

   Explore changes in state

   Investigate changes involving mixtures

   Throughout the year
   Using some scientific instruments

   Exploring various weather features and how weather affects their lives

   Measuring using nonstandard and standard units

   Collecting, sorting, classifying, and recording data

   Texts and/or material: Science and Technology for children units --
   Grade 1 Organisms and Grade 2 Changes

   Semester Overview:
   Quarter 2: Organisms (Life Science)

   Quarter 4: Changes (Physical Science)

   *See other math outline for more science related topics.  Math will
   cover measuring, sorting, collecting, classifying, and recording data.
   During calendar time in October, January, and April students will learn
   and graph weather/season information.

     __________________________________________________________________

      © Copyright 2000
       Designed by: Michael P. Hooks
      Last updated on Friday January 25, 2002
      Privacy Notice Information


      Section 508 approved
