http://www.boost4kids.gov/topics.cfm?ID=34

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Welcome

   Meet B4K Network

   Find Your State

   Home


   Boost 4 Kids

   HOME

Hot Topics

   work together



   OUTREACH TO YOUTH


   Adolescence Directory On-line

   A service of the Center for Adolescent Studies at Indiana U., offers an
   electronic guide to resources on topics such as conflict and violence,
   mental health and risk issues.

   afterschool.gov

   One stop federal information for afterschool programs, funding and
   resources: transportation, snacks, mentors, recreation, computers, Web
   sites for kids and teens, etc. Sponsored by the Federal Support to
   Communities Initiative with GSA and the Reinventing Government Task
   Force led by Vice President Gore.

   America's Jobs Bank

   Americas Job Bank is a partnership between the US Department of Labor
   and the state operated Public Employment Service. The Americas Job Bank
   computerized network links state Employment Service offices to provide
   job seekers with the largest pool of active job opportunities available
   anywhere and nationwide exposure for their resumes.

   Building Bridges between Families, Schools, and the Community

   Bridge Communications, an educational publishing, research, and
   consulting company specializing in health, parenting, and home-school
   partnerships. Our goal is that children and teens will receive the
   education and support they need to grow up healthy, safe, and informed
   about issues that affect them.

   Community YouthMapping

   Community YouthMapping is young people canvassing their neighborhoods
   in search of places to go and things to do. Young people called mappers
   canvass their neighborhoods, using a survey tool, to gather baseline
   information on the resources available for young people, children and
   families in their communities. The Center defines resources as places
   to go, opportunities and things to do.

   Federal Website for Teens

   Afterschool.gov's Website for Teens is a great place to learn more
   about science and technology, art, business, politics, community
   service and more.

   Keeping Schools Open as Community Learning Centers

   Keeping schools open longer before and after school, and during the
   summer can turn schools into Community Learning Centers. By keeping
   school doors open during non-traditional school hours, the school
   provides students, parents, and the community with access to valuable
   educational resources. A Community Learning Center housed in the
   community school can be a safe after-school and summer haven for
   children, where learning takes place in a building removed from the
   violence, drugs, and lack of supervision of children that permeate some
   communities in America. This guidebook outlines the steps needed to
   successfully convert a school into a community learning center and
   lists resources for further information and assistance.

   Millions of Health Insurance-Eligible Teens Remain Uninsured

   New Study Finds States Must Work Harder to Enroll More Than 2 Million
   Eligible Adolescents

   National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy

   The mission of the National Campaign to Prevent Teen Pregnancy is to
   improve the life prospects of this generation and the next -- and, in
   particular, to reduce child poverty -- by influencing cultural values
   and building a more effective grassroots movement. The Campaign's goal
   is to reduce the teen pregnancy rate by one-third between 1996 and
   2005.

   National Clearinghouse on Families & Youth

   NCFY is the Family and Youth Services Bureau's (FYSB's) central
   resource on youth and family policy and practice. FYSB is a Bureau
   within the Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF);
   Administration for Children and Families (ACF); U.S. Department of
   Health and Human Services (DHHS). On this site, you will find
   information on new youth- and family-related materials and initiatives,
   NCFY publications for downloading, and more.

   New American High Schools Initiative

   Supports high school reform by providing leadership in six areas:
   identifying New American High Schools, conducting research and
   evaluation to determine how these high schools achieve outstanding
   results, providing information, expert assistance, and financial
   support to high schools that want to transform the way they teach and
   the way their students learn, creating public awareness, developing
   partnerships, helping to create public policies

   New Guide to Help Local Communities Establish Teen Pregnancy Prevention
   Programs

   HHS Secretary Donna E. Shalala announces the release of "Get Organized:
   A Guide to Preventing Teen Pregnancy." The publication stresses a
   localized approach, a long-term commitment, and careful evaluation. It
   also provides novel approaches for addressing teen pregnancy,
   suggestions on how to target young men in prevention efforts, and
   mechanisms for channeling community views on pregnancy prevention into
   effective, localized strategies for addressing the overall issue.

   Promoting Better Health for Young People

   This report from the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the
   Secretary of Education, and recently released by the White House,
   outlines ten strategies to promote health and reduce obesity through
   lifelong participation in enjoyable and safe physical activity and
   sports.

   Search Institute's 40 Developmental Assets

   In an effort to identify the elements of a strength-based approach to
   healthy development, Minnesota-based Search Institute developed the
   framework of developmental assets. This framework identifies 40
   critical factors for young people's growth and development. When drawn
   together, the assets offer a set of benchmarks for positive child and
   adolescent development. The assets clearly show important roles that
   families, schools, congregations, neighborhoods, youth organizations,
   and others in communities play in shaping young people's lives.

   Serving Children and Youth Through the TANF Block Grant

   States Finding New Ways to Serve Poor, But Relying More on Federal
   Funds "Within the bounds of the complex TANF regulations, states are
   finding creative uses for TANF funds to promote quality child care,
   early childhood education, teen pregnancy prevention, stay-in-school
   initiatives and other programs that aim to give children and youth the
   support and care they need for healthy development." "Serving Children
   and Youth Through the TANF Block Grant," a National Governors
   Association Issue Brief, gives examples and helpful hints for
   administrators.

   Statistics on Decreases in Teen Pregnancy

   According to the National Center for Health Statistics, births to teens
   fell for a seventh straight year in 1998 and are down 18% since 1991.
   Births among teens from all ethnic groups have dropped, and births
   among teens ages 15-17 are now at their lowest rate in four decades.
   Reasons reported include higher rates of abstinence and more reliable
   birth control. To encourage ongoing support of school-based teen
   pregnancy prevention, the Council of Chief State School Officers
   (CCSSO) has published "Teen Pregnancy: State Education Agencies and
   Prevention" -- available free at:

   Tapping TANF Funds for Youth

   This publication describes how and when it is permissible to use TANF
   funds for youth-related activities and services and provides
   illustrations of how TANF funds are being spent on youth. An attachment
   provides information about some proven or promising youth programs
   which could be supported with TANF funds.

   Vermont What Works: Keeping Youth in School in Your Community

   This booklet is one of a series produced by the Planning Division of
   the Vermont Agency of Human Services to assist the work of its regional
   and local partners in achieving positive outcomes for Vermonts
   citizens. The State Team for Children, Families, and Individuals has
   identified 10 outcomes, or conditions of well-being, that form the
   basis for these efforts. (NOTE: Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to
   view this document.)

   Vermont What Works: Preventing Teen Pregnancy in Your Community

   This booklet is one of a series produced by the Planning Division of
   the Vermont Agency of Human Services to assist the work of its regional
   and local partners in achieving positive outcomes for Vermonts
   citizens. The State Team for Children, Families, and Individuals has
   identified 10 outcomes, or conditions of well-being, that form the
   basis for these efforts. (NOTE: Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to
   view this document.)

   Vermont What Works: Preventing Youth Disruptive or Violent Behavior in
   Your Community

   This booklet is one of a series produced by the Planning Division of
   the Vermont Agency of Human Services to assist the work of its regional
   and local partners in achieving positive outcomes for Vermonts
   citizens. The State Team for Children, Families, and Individuals has
   identified 10 outcomes, or conditions of well-being, that form the
   basis for these efforts. (NOTE: Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to
   view this document.)

   Vermont What Works: Preventing Youth Substance Abuse in Your Community

   This booklet is one of a series produced by the Planning Division of
   the Vermont Agency of Human Services to assist the work of its regional
   and local partners in achieving positive outcomes for Vermonts
   citizens. The State Team for Children, Families, and Individuals has
   identified 10 outcomes, or conditions of well-being, that form the
   basis for these efforts. (NOTE: Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to
   view this document.)

   Youth Opportunity Movement

   The Youth Opportunity Movement is the partnership-building network that
   helps communities access all of their resources to help at-risk youth.
   It provides the chance for every American - employers, individuals and
   young people - to reach into the community and help out-of-school youth
   succeed. It is because of this involvement at the grassroots level that
   Youth Opportunity is a Movement rather than simply a program or
   initiative.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
