http://www.sfablueprint.ed.gov/text/tindex.cfm

                           Modernization Blueprint
                                  Home Page

   [ What's New| Email Greg Woods| Download Blueprint Modernization Plan |
   Provide Feedback| Adobe Reader Tips| Modernization Blueprint Home Page
                                      ]

              The Modernization Blueprint An e-Volving Document


   During the past six months we've done a lot to help you now and in the
   future.   We put the Master Promissory Note into action, improved
   process flow in Direct Loan originations to reduce rejects, and
   introduced Direct Loan Consolidation application processing over the
   Internet.   We have already issued seven million PINS to support FAFSA
   on the Web and future Web portals.   We'll issue a total of 12 million
   PINS to students and parents in the near future.


   It seems like only yesterday that we released the first Modernization
   Blueprint on September 30, 1999.   It was a milestone in the
   modernization of Student Financial Assistance (SFA), the office of the
   U.S. Department of Education that administers student financial aid
   programs.   Many thanks to the people that provided us feedback and
   comments on our prior versions of the Blueprint.   The comments that we
   have collected can be seen in the PDF file, SFA Modernization Blueprint
   - Community Feedback.


   As always, we look forward to reading your comments on the Blueprint.
     Click on the link, you'll be linked into a message and database page
   direct to us.   We will review your comments and make changes to the
   Blueprint.


   You may also email Greg Woods, Chief Operating Officer for the Office
   of Student Financial Assistance Programs, with your comments.


   Note: In order to view the Adobe Portable Document Format (PDF) files,
   you must have installed version 3.0 or higher of the Adobe Acrobat
   Reader (free). Installation instructions can be found on the Adobe
   site.

   To obtain the best print quality, download the document to a file and
   print from the file. Printing directly from your browser may result in
   fuzzy images. Having printer memory problems?

   Chapter One - Executive Summary (21 pages) [608 KB]
   Chapter Two - How to Use This Book (14 pages) [127 KB]
   Chapter Three - Business Requirements (182 pages) [1.1 MB]
   Chapter Four - Business and Technical Architecture (364 pages) [2.5 MB]
   Chapter Five - Sequencing Plan (92 pages) [2 MB]

        Greg Woods, Chief Operating Officer for the Office of Student
   Financial Assistance Programs ...

                        U.S. Department of Education
                           400 Maryland Avenue, SW
                            Washington, DC 20202
                               1-800-USA-LEARN
   via email: Technical questions about the Web site:
   webmaster@inet.ed.gov
   Other inquiries/comments: CustomerService@inet.ed.gov
   See also our list of Toll-Free Information Phone Numbers
   To report technical problems with the Web site, use our Problem Report
   Form
   To help us improve the site, fill out our Customer Survey

                      Page Last Modified April 20, 2001

                  You are visitor number 3225 to this page!
