http://indianapolis.fbi.gov/contact/fo/ip/programs.htm




     | Home | Jurisdiction | Task Forces | Investigative Programs | Press
                                                               Releases |
   | FBI's Most Wanted - Indianapolis | Community Outreach | Employment |

   FBI Seal. (Links to the FBI Home Page.)
                                           Federal Bureau of Investigation
                                           Indianapolis Division
   __________________________________________________________________


   INVESTIGATIVE PROGRAMS

   In order to operate more efficiently and to ensure that there is
   accountability within all investigative areas, "investigative programs"
   are established in each office. Our investigative programs are
   summarized below:
     * Violent Crimes
     * Organized Crime and Drug Investigations
     * White-Collar Crime
     * International and Domestic Terrorism
     * National Foreign Intelligence Program

                               VIOLENT CRIMES

   The Violent Crime/Major Offenders Program in the Indianapolis Division
   is responsible for investigating violent crimes which include bank
   robberies, kidnappings, fugitives, crimes against children, interstate
   theft, and government reservation crimes.
   Fugitives

   To address fugitive matters, the Indianapolis Violent Crime/Major
   Offender Fugitive Task Force was created in 1992. The task force is a
   multiagency effort to identify, locate, and apprehend fugitives wanted
   for the most serious crimes of violence and drug related offenses. For
   more information, visit our Task Forces page.

   Bank Robberies

   Although bank robberies have a high priority in the Violent Crimes
   Program, statistically, the number of reported bank robberies has
   declined. By way of comparison, in 1997, 7,876 bank robberies were
   reported nationwide with 148 occurring in Indiana compared to 1999 when
   6,599 bank robberies were reported nationwide with 95 of those
   occurring in Indiana. The Indianapolis Division continues to
   aggressively respond to all bank robberies which are usually worked
   jointly with state and local law enforcement who also have jurisdiction
   in these matters.

   Crimes Against Children

   The Violent Crimes program also addresses crimes against children
   matters where distribution of child pornography via the Internet is the
   primary area of concern. The "Innocent Images" initiative focuses on
   identifying individuals who (1) possess and distribute child
   pornography over the Internet and (2) who seek to sexually exploit
   minor children by luring them into personal meetings over the Internet.

   Also included in this sub-program is the crime of parental kidnapping
   which involves a non-custodial parent removing his/her minor child
   outside the State of Indiana or outside the United States without the
   consent of the custodial parent.

   Interstate Theft

   The Violent Crimes program in Indianapolis also addresses interstate
   theft matters. Interstate theft could be a significant crime problem
   since Indianapolis is "the crossroads of America" with the convergence
   of several interstate freeways through Indianapolis. Indianapolis is
   also home to several manufacturers, distribution centers, warehouse
   facilities, trucking terminals, and railroad yards. In spite of this,
   Indianapolis sees very little in Interstate theft due in large part to
   diligent liaison and an aggressive and proactive deterrent initiative
   by business and law enforcement.

   Crimes on a Government Reservation

   The FBI is responsible for investigating crimes that occur on a
   government reservation. The majority of these crimes are generated
   almost exclusively from the U.S. Penitentiary at Terre Haute, Indiana,
   and generally involve attempts to smuggle narcotics into the prison or
   violence among inmates.

   Return to the top.

                   ORGANIZED CRIME AND DRUG INVESTIGATIONS

   The Indianapolis Division of the FBI conducts investigations involving
   criminal organizations and criminal enterprises involved in traditional
   and non-traditional organized crime and drug trafficking. These
   investigations are long-term, complex investigations utilizing the most
   sophisticated and innovative techniques.

   The FBI views organized crime groups and drug trafficking organizations
   as criminal enterprises or criminal businesses. Investigative efforts
   are taken to fully identify all aspects of the organization to include
   its members, their illegal activities, proceeds from the illegal
   activities, and assets derived from the proceeds. Elimination of the
   organizations' leaders and seizure of the assets are the ultimate goal
   of any investigation.

   Organized Crime Program

   Although the Indianapolis Division has investigated traditional
   organized crime in the past, non-traditional organized crime has become
   more prevalent in recent years. The division's investigative efforts
   are directed at Asian, Russian, Eurasian, and Nigerian Organized Crime.

   Drug Program

   The FBI's National Strategy for drug investigations identifies the
   highest priority drug trafficking organizations throughout the world
   and develops initiatives to diminish the most significant drug
   trafficking threats. In concert with the National Strategy, the
   Indianapolis Division also identifies the most significant and highest
   priority threats facing Indiana. The goal of the division is to disrupt
   and dismantle the drug trafficking organizations operating in Indiana.
   The Indianapolis Division drug program coordinates its investigations
   with other federal, state, and local agencies or task force operations,
   including the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF) and
   the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) Task Force.

   Return to the top.

                             WHITE-COLLAR CRIME

   Overview

   The White-Collar Crime Program is a multi-faceted investigative area.
   Broadly, white-collar crime is considered to be a non-violent crime
   that results in economic loss. Despite its lack of violence,
   white-collar crime has a greater impact on the United States economy
   than any other type of crime problem.

   In the Indianapolis Division, there are several sub-programs
   investigated under the white-collar crime umbrella. The primary areas
   include government fraud, health care fraud, financial institution
   fraud, environmental crime, and public corruption. Civil rights matters
   are also investigated under this umbrella. Due to the wide variety of
   violations investigated in the white-collar crime area, many
   investigations are conducted jointly with other agencies having
   overlapping jurisdictions. FBI Indianapolis white-collar crime
   investigators currently participate in joint task forces involving
   environmental crimes, health care fraud, and public corruption.

   FBI Indianapolis is also working together with other law enforcement
   agencies on the federal, state, and local levels to establish a
   computer crime investigative center. In order to ensure the broadest
   approach to this emerging crime problem, this center also includes
   assistance from academia and the private sector. The role of FBI
   Indianapolis in this computer center will become part of the overall
   white-collar crime program.

   Public Corruption Program

   There is no more fundamental threat to the order upon which our local,
   state and federal governments are based than public corruption. Public
   corruption is the number one priority of the Indianapolis White-Collar
   Crime Program, and can come in many forms, especially payoffs to public
   officials. These payoffs or bribes can effect the safety of
   construction projects, the health of the environment, and the
   legitimacy of public institutions. This breach of the public's trust
   affects both the individual victims and the community as a whole.

   The FBI has a continuing responsibility to respond to allegations or
   development of information within the FBI's jurisdiction involving
   abuse of trust by public officials. A public official is an individual
   elected or appointed to a position of trust in a government entity or
   political subdivision thereof. Public corruption investigations are
   viewed as one of the most sensitive investigative matters the FBI
   handles. These investigations demand and receive a circumspect and
   prudent approach. Much can be at stake for any victim and/or public
   official who becomes a focus of a corruption investigation. There is
   usually intense media attention surrounding these investigations. The
   reputation of the official and the victim may be adversely or
   irretrievably affected.

   There are instances when public corruption goes undetected by law
   enforcement due to the lack of cooperation by those who have intimate
   knowledge of these crimes, to include victims who fear some type of
   retaliation by the accused public official. When illegal deeds by
   public officials go unreported, they can perpetuate an ongoing cycle of
   corruption within the affected community. It is every citizen's duty
   and responsibility to report such activity to protect themselves and
   their communities from present and future corrupt activities of public
   officials which can cause local, state and federal governments and
   their inhabitants untold financial hardships and other harm.

   The FBI needs your help to root out corruption in your community. Call
   your nearest FBI office with any pertinent corruption information.

   FBI White Collar Crime Programs:
   Government Fraud
   Health Care Fraud
   Financial Institution Fraud
   Economic Crimes
   Civil Rights


   Return to the top.



                    INTERNATIONAL AND DOMESTIC TERRORISM

   The FBI is the lead federal agency for investigation relating to acts
   of international and domestic terrorism. Terrorism is defined as
   violent or criminal acts against a civilian population for the purpose
   of coercion, and promoting a political cause or agenda. When those
   crimes occur within the United States, and are perpetrated by an
   individual or group associated with a domestic cause, they are defined
   as domestic terrorism. When they are perpetrated by an individual or
   group from outside the U.S., then it is defined as international
   terrorism. Also, beginning 1986 it has been a violation of federal law
   for any group or individual to commit an act of terrorism against U.S.
   interests or U.S. citizens even in a foreign country. The FBI expends
   considerable efforts investigating acts of international terrorism
   against U.S. citizens overseas.

   In an effort to more efficiently investigate acts of domestic and
   international terrorism, the Indianapolis Division initiated a Joint
   Terrorism Task Force (JTTF) in 1999. For more information, visit our
   Task Forces page.
   Return to the top.



                    NATIONAL FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM

   The FBI is the lead federal agency charged with protecting the United
   States from foreign intelligence threats. As such, the FBI is engaged
   in a number of counterintelligence efforts, including investigations
   relating to espionage and attempted theft of sensitive information and
   technologies. Because many of these investigations relate to national
   security information, they are classified at high levels.

   The FBI's ANSIR Program

   The Awareness of National Security Issues and Response (ANSIR) Program
   is the FBI's national security awareness program. It is the "public
   voice" of the FBI for espionage, counterintelligence, counterterrorism,
   economic espionage, cyber and physical infrastructure protection and
   all national security issues. The program is designed to provide
   unclassified national security threat and warning information to U.S.
   corporate security directors and executives, law enforcement, and other
   government agencies. It also focuses on the "response" capability
   unique to the FBI's jurisdiction in both law enforcement and
   counterintelligence investigations.
   ANSIR-Email has the capacity to reach over 100,000 recipients, which
   should accommodate every U.S. corporation who wishes to receive
   information from the FBI. Corporate entities who wish to be included on
   the ANSIR e-mail list should contact Special Agent Byron Franz at
   bfranz@leo.gov.
   National Infrastructure Protection Center: InfraGard

   "Partnership for Protecting the Information Infrastructure"

   Background
   Our nation's critical infrastructures must be protected to ensure our
   national defense, economic prosperity and quality of life. The National
   Infrastructure Protection Center (NIPC) was formed in 1998 to
   coordinate the efforts to protect America's infrastructures. The NIPC
   brings together government, industry, and academia to foster awareness,
   monitor threats and coordinate the response to cyber and physical
   attacks. InfraGard is an association being formed by the NIPC to
   exchange information concerning the protection of the information
   infrastructure.

   National InfraGard
   NIPC, in partnership with the InfraGard Executive Committee, will
   coordinate InfraGard activities at the national level. As it is
   currently envisioned, National InfraGard consists of 56 chapters
   affiliated with the FBI's field division offices.

   InfraGard of Indiana
   InfraGard of Indiana is affiliated with the FBI's Indianapolis Field
   Division, which has responsibility for all of Indiana. The Indiana
   chapter is subdivided into local chapters located in Indianapolis and
   Fort Wayne. Other local chapters may be added as needed.

   Program Objective
   InfraGard of Indiana will provide forums to bring together law
   enforcement and the security community to cultivate threat awareness,
   and exchange ideas on preventing, assessing and recovering from attacks
   to the information infrastructure. These forums are critical to the
   prevention of, and eventually the prosecution of, physical or cyber
   attacks.

   Your Investment in the Program
   The success of this program depends on the participation and
   contribution of the entire community. Your investment of time, human
   resources, technical expertise and financial support will ensure the
   organization achieves its objective.

   Benefits of Participation
   As a member of InfraGard, you will be invited to attend chapter
   meetings and educational seminars. You will receive security advisories
   via the Alert Network and assistance from the NIPC's Help Desk, and may
   be granted access to the Secure Web Site. Most importantly, you will
   become a member of a network of people interested in protecting the
   infrastructures vital to our community.

   Who to Contact for More Information
   For more information about InfraGard of Indiana, please contact the FBI
   Indianapolis Division by telephone at (317) 639-3301 or by e-mail at
   ‘infragard.indianapolis@fbi.gov.' For information on the national
   InfraGard program, visit www.infragard.net.

   InfraGard of Indiana
   Indianapolis Chapter

     2001 General Meeting Schedule: May 16th; August 15th; November 14th
                                 (tentative)

   At the Lilly Auditorium located on the Lower Level of the University
   Library,
   Indiana University – Purdue University at Indianapolis
   1:00 – 3:00 p.m.

   Points of Contact:

   President
   David Ehinger
   Technology Control Officer
   Rolls Royce Corporation
   317-230-4198
   david.p.ehinger@allison.com

   Vice-President
   David Leonard
   Information Security Analyst
   Sallie Mae
   317-578-6704
   dleonard@usagroup.com

   Secretary
   (Vacant)

   Treasurer
   Amy Quarterman
   Information Security Analyst
   Sallie Mae
   aquarterman@usagroup.com

   Program Chair
   Scott Barker
   Information Security
   Eli Lilly and Company
   317-433-9289
   barker_scott_d@lilly.com

   Past President
   Debby Butts
   Security Administrator
   Inforamtion Services
   Clarian Health Partners
   317-929-5687

   FBI
   Representatives Russell E. Fox, Special Agent
   Deborah Ann Gossett, Intelligence Research Specialist
   317-639-3301
   infragard.indianapolis@fbi.gov

   InfraGard of Indiana
   Fort Wayne Chapter

                           Tentative 2001 Schedule


                       May23rd       Quarterly Meeting
                       July 18th     Workshop
                       September 5th Quarterly Meeting
                       October 17th  Workshop
                       December 5th  Quarterly Meeting

   Held in the Gallery Room at the
   Greater Fort Wayne Chamber of Commerce,
   826 Ewing Street, in downtown Fort Wayne
   1:00 – 3:00 p.m.

   Points of Contact:

   David Erbach
   Professor and Chair, Department of Computer Science
   Indiana University-Purdue University
   At Fort Wayne
   219-481-6867
   erbachd@ipfw.edu

   Greg Gabet
   Security & Internet Architect
   IBM Global Services
   ggabet@inc.com

   Larry Kumfer
   Manager, Computer Operations
   ITT Industries D&E Fort Wayne
   219-451-6240
   larry.kumfer@itt.com

   David Lloyd
   Detective
   Indiana State Police
   219-432-8661
   ispdet@aol.com

   Joe Martin (Chapter President)
   Consulting Security Specialist
   IBM Corporation
   219-485-9040
   jfmarti@us.ibm.com

   David McCalmrock
   Deputy Prosecuting Attorney
   Allen County Prosecuting Attorney's Office
   219-449-7319
   acpao@fwi.com

   David Miller
   Supervisory U.S. Attorney
   U.S. Attorney's Office
   219-422-2595
   david.miller3@usdoj.gov

   Paul O'Malley
   Patent Attorney
   O'Malley & Firestone
   pwomalley@fwpatent.com

   Gary Morales
   Detective
   Fort Wayne Police Department
   219-427-1201
   gary.morales@ci.ft-wayne.in.us

   Doug Guiler
   Sergeant
   Fort Wayne Police Department
   219-427-1201
   doug.guiler@ci.ft-wayne.in.us

   FBI Representatives:

   Russell E. Fox, Special Agent – Indianapolis
   317-639-3301
   citac.indianapolis@fbi.gov

   Deborah Ann Gossett, Intelligence Research Specialist – Indianapolis
   317-639-3301
   infragard.indianapolis@fbi.gov

   Gil Hirschy, Special Agent – Fort Wayne
   219-426-5331

   Return to the top.

   | ADA Compliance | Privacy & Security Notice | FBI Field Offices |
                                fbi.gov |
