http://www.boc.ca.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board Home Page
   Victim Application for Crime Victim Compensation
   Victim Compensation
   Government Claims
   Revenue Recovery and Compliance Branch
   Latest Public Notice
   Download VCGC Board Forms and Publications
   California State Employees Charitable Campaign
   Missing Children Reward Program
   Job Opportunities
   Send your comments to the VCGC Board
   Survey
   California State Seal

   Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board
   FLEX YOUR POWER
       Flex Your Power
       CA Energy Commission


   ATTACK ON AMERICA
   The events of September 11, 2001 have shaken us all. Our hearts go out
   to everyone. We know that America is in a state of shock and we want to
   do all we can do to help. We are committed to providing services to the
   victims of these acts of terrorism in an expeditious and compassionate
   manner.
   In response to the tragedy that has struck our nation, we and other
   organizations are working together to ensure that information and
   services are readily available.
   Para Español oprima aqui: Español


   __________ search
      (*)  My CA
   Victim Compensation (800)777-9229 Government Claims (800)955-0045
   The U.S. Department of Justice launched a new Victims and Family
       Assistance  Web site to deliver crucial and timely information to
       those who need it most - terrorism victims and their families. This
       new victims-only Web site will include information about emergency
       assistance, legal rights and services, updates on the criminal
       justice response, and resources for coping with the emotional
       trauma.
       Hate Crime Fact Sheet    (September 20, 2001)
       To view the Hate Crime fact sheet in the following languages, click
       on the language:
       Arabic  (Word Document)
       Farsi (Word Document)
       Gujarati (Word Document)
       Punjabi  (Word Document)
       Urdu  (Word Document)
       Spanish  (PDF Document)
       Governor Davis Sponsors Legislation to Expand Victim Compensation
       to Families
       (September 14, 2001)
       Governor Davis Announces State Program is Available to Assist
       Families of Terrorism Victims
       (September 12, 2001)

   FEATURED CONTENT
     * BOARD MEMBERS
       The Board is comprised of the Director of the Department of General
       Services as Chair, the State Controller as a member, and another
       member appointed by the Governor. Current Board Members are:

     * Barry D. Keene, Director of General Services and Chairman of the
       Board
     * Kathleen Connell, California Controller and Board Member
     * David Rosenberg, Senior Advisor to the Governor and Board Member

     EXECUTIVE STAFF
     * Kelly Brodie, Executive Officer
     * Catherine Close, Chief Counsel
     * Richard H. Anderson, Chief Deputy Executive Officer
     * David Shaw, Deputy Executive Officer, Administration
     * Pete Williams, Deputy Executive Officer,Victims of Crime Program
     * Jennifer Shaffer, Deputy Executive Officer, Quality Assurance and
       Revenue Recovery
     * Shirley L. Ramudo, Chief, Audits and Investigations

     HEARING NOTICES
     * Hearing Schedules and Public Notices

     STATUTES
   Under California law (Government Code Sections 13959 - 13969.5 and
   13970 - 13974.1), certain victims of crime may receive payments from
   the Restitution Fund for unreimbursed losses directly resulting from a
   crime. The Restitution Fund is the VOC Program's primary funding source
   and it receives monies collected through fines and penalties imposed by
   judges upon persons convicted of crimes and traffic offenses in
   California.

     LEGISLATION, RULES, PRECEDENT DECISIONS
     * Legislation
     * Board Rules
     * Precedent Decisions

     OTHER
     * VOC Outreach
     * Press Releases

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
