http://vaonline.va.gov


   VA Online Icon. The image shows part of an American flag waving in a
                                 breeze.
                          Return to VA Online Page
                                VA Online
                            Edit your Account
                            Access your Email
                            Search for Files
                            Post to the Forum
                          Participate in a Poll
                            Find another User
                        Talk in a Teleconference
                           Ask about Benefits
                             Search the Wall
         Department of Veterans Affairs Seal: Return to Home Page
                             [skip navigation]
   [skip navigation]
   VA Online

   Welcome to VA Online
   Modem: 1-800-US1-VETS (1-800-871-8387) Communications setting 8-N-1
   Telnet: vaonline.va.gov
   FTP: vaonline.va.gov
   HTTP: vaonline.va.gov

   This is a Department of Veterans Affairs computer system owned and
   operated by the federal government. U.S. Government computer systems
   are provided for the processing of official U.S. Government information
   only. All data contained on Department of Veterans Affairs computer
   systems are owned or controlled by the U.S. Government, and may, for
   the purpose of protecting the rights and property of the Department of
   Veterans Affairs, be monitored, intercepted, recorded, read, copied, or
   captured in any manner by authorized systems personnel. There is no
   right of privacy in this system. Systems personnel may give to law
   enforcement officials any potential evidence of crime found on
   Department of Veterans Affairs computer systems. Use of this system by
   any user, authorized or unauthorized, constitutes consent to this
   monitoring, interception, recording, reading, copying, or capturing and
   disclosure.

   You can access our system by selecting an icon for one of the modules
   listed below. If you don't have an account on this system yet, please
   sign up .  To access this system via Client-Server mode (assuming you
   already have the Worldgroup plug-in for Netscape or Internet Explorer
   installed), please see our Main System Menu .


   VA Home Page  / Search  / Site Map  / Facilities Locator  / Disclaimer
   Privacy & Security Statement  / Freedom of Information Act  / Contact
   the VA


   Reviewed/Updated: March 17, 2000
