http://www.bettis.gov/benefits.html


   The Young Guns, a softball team of new employees and Link to Skip
                           Navigation Links
   Bettis Laboratory
   Home
   Send Us Your Resume
   Career Opportunities
   Campus Interviews
   Summer Intern Program
   What We Do
   Why Choose Bettis
   About our Communities
   Diversity
   Employee Benefits
   FAQs

Employee Benefits

   We believe you will find the benefits at Bettis to be highly
   competitive.  The following information provides a sample of the
   benefits that our employees enjoy.

Employee and Family Activities

   Employees enjoy participating together in activities such as organized
   softball, volleyball, skiing, golf, and bowling and clubs for PC users
   and Toastmasters. Family activities include a Children's Holiday Party,
   an annual company picnic at a local amusement park, and a 5K Family
   Run/Walk.

Health (Includes Vision, Prescription Drugs, Mental Health, and Alcohol and
Drug Rehabilitation)

   Coverage begins immediately upon hire and includes two plans from which
   employees and eligible dependents may choose. Contributions are paid on
   a pre-tax basis.

Spending Accounts

   A flexible method to pay for eligible health care expenses and
   dependent care expenses.

Dental

   Coverage begins immediately upon hire and includes two plans from which
   employees and eligible dependents may choose. Contributions are also
   paid on a pre-tax basis.

401K Savings Plan

   Employees may contribute from 2% to 20% of their compensation on a
   pre-tax or after-tax basis. Certain IRS limits may apply. Company
   matching is $.50 for every $1.00 contributed, up to 6%. Eleven
   investment options are offered.

Educational Assistance Program

   This program provides tuition reimbursement for approved courses and
   degree programs upon satisfactory course completion.

On-Site Training Programs

   Bettis provides on-site technical and job-related courses to facilitate
   professional and personal growth.

Vacation

   Ten days of paid vacation are provided after three months of
   employment. The number of vacation days increases with service.

Holiday Observances

   Ten holidays are observed each year, including one "floating holiday"
   selected by each employee.

Flexible Work Schedules

   Employees may work a traditional 40-hour, 5-day week, with some
   flexibility in scheduling work hours.

   A second option is the 9/80 alternate work schedule (AWS), which
   involves working 80 hours over a 9-day period, instead of working 80
   hours over a 10-day period, as in the traditional schedule. Under the
   9/80 AWS, employees work four 9-hour days each week. The fifth day of
   each week alternates between an 8-hour day and a day of rest.

   Employees may also request a part-time work schedule of between 16 and
   32 hours per week.

Employee Mutual Fund Purchase Plan

   Employees can purchase shares on an after-tax basis in the MFS
   Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund with no front-end load.

Employee Assistance Program

   Confidential counseling and referral services are provided by an
   outside contractor through this program.

Disability Insurance

   Short-term and long-term coverage is available.

Pension Plan

   Employees can earn retirement income based on compensation and years of
   credited service for a contribution of 1.5% of salary.

Life Insurance

   Death benefit equal to 1.5 times annual earnings, with a minimum of
   $36,000 and a maximum of $50,000 provided by the company. Employees may
   elect to purchase additional coverage in amounts from 1 to 4 times
   their annual salary.

Other company-sponsored insurance plans

   Bettis also offers Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance,
   Dependent Life Insurance, Personal and Family Accident Insurance, and
   Travel Accident Insurance. Employee contributions are required for
   participation in some of these plans.

Medical Department

   There is an on-site medical department that offers periodic physical
   examinations and provides medical assistance in a variety of ways.
   While not intended to replace your personal physician, the health care
   providers offer wellness care while you are at work.

                                Return to Top

   All candidates must be U.S. citizens. Applicants selected will be
   subject to a Federal background investigation and must meet eligibility
   requirements for access to classified matter.

                        An Equal Opportunity Employer
