http://cog.nimh.nih.gov/desimone.html

          Dr. Bob Desimone Robert Desimone, Ph.D.
          Scientific Director, National Institute of Mental Health
          Acting Chief, Experimental Therapeutics Branch
          Chief, Laboratory of Neuropsychology

                   Chief, Section on Behavioral Physiology

   Synopsis of Ongoing Work

      Disorders of perception, attention, and memory frequently accompany the
      major mental diseases. To understand the neural mechanisms of these
      mental processes, we are recording the activity of neurons in the
      extrastriate and prefrontal cortex of nonhuman primates engaged in
      tasks requiring visual discrimination, attention, and memory. We also
      use the results from the neurophysiological studies to make predictions
      about the physiological organization of human cortex. These predictions
      can then be tested in human brain imaging experiments, which are done
      in the Laboratory of Brain and Cognition, NIMH.

      Attention is often thought of as a gateway to learning and memory
      because we typically learn and remember much more about the stimuli to
      which we attend in the environment that we do about stimuli we ignore.
      However, the converse is equally true. That is, we have found that
      mechanisms for learning and memory play a critical role in the
      selection process that determines which stimuli of the many stimuli in
      a complex environment are attended. For visual memory, the inferior
      temporal cortex, entorhinal cortex, and prefrontal cortex appear to
      play a central role. We have found one type of long-term neuronal
      memory mechanism in the inferior temporal and entorhinal cortex that
      biases attention towards stimuli that are novel. Another type biases
      attention towards stimuli that have been become behaviorally relevant
      because they have been repeatedly paired with reward. Cells in
      prefrontal cortex participate in working memory, i.e. temporarily
      holding information on-line, or "in mind".
      Evidence from our own and other labs suggests that feedback projections
      from these cells bias neuronal activity within the ventral
      occipitotemporal processing stream, which mediates visual object
      recognition. This bias favors cells coding stimuli that are currently
      relevant for behavior and gives them a competitive advantage over cells
      coding irrelevant stimuli. As a result, when confronted with multiple
      competing stimuli in the environment, cortical information processing
      is focused on relevant stimuli, and the processing of irrelevant
      stimuli is suppressed. As the physiological studies predict,
      neurobehavioral studies in the lab demonstrate that damage to these
      same ventral stream areas impairs the ability to focus attention on a
   relevant stimulus and to filter out strong distracting stimuli.

   [ISMAP:button.gif]-[USEMAP:button.gif]
