http://www.usfa.fema.gov/grants/02update1.htm


   FEMA Seal
   An official web site of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIRE Act Grants
   Navigation Menu Link Recipients
   Navigation Menu Link Requests
   Navigation Menu Link Application Package
   Navigation Menu Link Special Prevention Grants
   Navigation Menu Link Federal Register
   Navigation Menu Link Legislation
   Navigation Menu Link Fact Sheet
   Navigation Menu Link FAQs
   Navigation Menu Link Press Releases
   Navigation Menu Link Developing/Writing Proposals

   Federal Assistance

                             USFA Grants Office
                               (866) 274-0960
                               (301) 447-1608
                             FAX (866) 274-0942

   Visit the FirstGov Web Site, one-stop access to all online U.S. Federal
                            Government resources.

      USFA Grants Banner Image

USFA UPDATE:
USFA is Working on Details for Larger FY02 Assistance to Firefighters Grant
Program

   Funding for the FY02 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program has now
   been increased to a total of $360 million.

   "Given the $3 billion in requests demonstrated by local fire
   departments in last years program, FEMA and the United States Fire
   Administration are more committed than ever to proceed with this very
   necessary assistance to local fire departments who as first responders,
   play such a critical role in America," said R. David Paulison, United
   States Fire Administrator. "We are diligently planning the approach for
   the FY 02 program."

   Even though final details are still being determined and will be
   announced in the next several weeks, it is already known that the
   application process will primarily be Internet based. While paper
   applications will continue to be accepted from those fire departments
   without Internet access, use of the Internet is highly recommend
   because of the guidance that is built into that electronic processing
   system. Also, applicants who utilize the "e-application" process will
   receive an automatic electronic confirmation that their application has
   been received once it is submitted.

   Eligible activities continued from last year will be Firefighting
   Equipment, PPE, Training, Fire Prevention, Fitness/Wellness, and
   Vehicles. In addition, fire-based EMS will be added as an eligible
   project this year.

   Although fire departments will be limited to submitting only one
   application this year, a new programmatic approach will allow
   applicants to request funding to address various complimentary and
   combinations of activities in one of the four distinct functional
   program areas. Those areas are Fire Operations and Firefighter Safety
   Programs, Fire Prevention Programs, Emergency Medical Services Programs
   and a Firefighting Vehicles Program.

   Fire service Peer Review Panels will also be a key part of the review
   process again this year. As such, FEMA will be accepting
   recommendations from the following organizations for individuals to
   serve on those Peer Review Panels:
     * International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC)
     * International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF)
     * National Volunteer Fire Council (NVFC)
     * National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
     * National Association of State Fire Marshals (NASFM)
     * International Association of Arson Investigators (IAAI)
     * International Society of Fire Service Instructors (ISFSI)
     * North American Fire Training Directors (NAFTD)
     * Congressional Fire Service Institute (CFSI)

   "Given the likelihood that the application process will open in early
   March, fire departments are encouraged to start gathering preliminary
   information for their application now," said Paulison.

   The best way to keep apprised of upcoming announcements about the FY02
   Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program is to enter your e-mail
   address at the "E-Mail List" link found at the top of the Fire
   Administrations web page at www.usfa.fema.gov.

   By doing so, you can be assured of receiving automatic e-mail
   notification of all new announcements, regarding application period,
   eligible activities, and other details of the FY02 Program.

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: January 11, 2002

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
