http://pbarc.ars.usda.gov/pages/pbarcnews.shtml

   USDA Logo Pacific Basin Agricultural Research Center Graphic ARS Logo

PBARC Home   Locations   Research   PBARC News   Employee Directory
                                                                      ARS Search

   Hawaiian Standard Time

   07:23:22 AM
   PBARC LINKS
   Welcome Message
   Director and Staff
   Directions
   AGENCY LINKS
   [ywbullet.gif] PWA
   ARS
   REE
   USDA
   red, white, and blue Barn Logo

      2001 has been a year of change at the Pacific Basin Agricultural
                              Research Center.

   Photo of Dr. Paul Moore Dr. Paul Moore is now the Acting Center
   Director.
   Dr. Moore also continues as Research Leader for the Tropical Plant
   Physiology, Disease, and Production Unit. Dr. Moore has a 32-year
   research career in Hawaii conducting research and development on the
   physiology, biochemistry, and molecular biology of sugarcane.

   PBARC Welcomes New Employees ......

   Photo of Jimmie Nell Oliver Jimmie Nell Oliver is the new Location
   Administrative Officer.
   Jimmy Nell has considerable experience in all aspects of
   administration. She comes to us from Manhatten, Kansas, where she had a
   decade long successful career as the Administrative Officer at that
   location.

   Photo of Dr. Paul Hepperly Dr. Paul Hepperly has joined the Tropical
   Plant Genetic Resource Unit.
   Dr. Hepperly joined the Pacific Basin Agriculture Research Center in
   the spring of 2001 to conduct research on bacterial wilt of ginger and
   its control. The Ginger Wilt Working Group is composed of
   interdepartmental researchers from the USDA, University of Hawaii Hilo
   and Manoa, Hawaii Agriculture Research Center, extension personnel,
   ginger producers and ginger commodity interests. In addition to
   investigating the nature of the ginger wilt pathogen populations,
   studies are underway to develop and test clean culture systems as
   alternative production systems for pathogen free seed-pieces.Over 95%
   of the total ginger production in the state is centralized on the
   Hamakua Coast of the Big Island of Hawaii. In peak epidemic years,
   ginger wilt has caused losses up to 45% of the crop. This yield loss is
   equivalent to a value of over $3 millions in a crop worth up to $8
   millions annually for Hawaiian producers.

   During the previous 5 years, Paul was the Coordinator of Pioneer
   Hi-bred International research programs for corn in Hawaii, Puerto
   Rico, Mexico and Chile. Prior to that he served as the Director of
   Dekalb Genetics research on the islands of Maui and Kauai.

   Photo of Dr. Marisa Wall Dr. Maris Wall has joined the Postharvest
   Tropical Commodities Research Unit.

   PBARC is proud to announce that these outstanding employees have joined
   our team! Welcome.

   Other News......

   Congratulation to Kate Nishijima, who was named Pacific West Region -
   2001 Support Scientist of the Year. She was recognized for her
   outstanding achievements and noteworthy contribution to the continued
   success of the Pacific West Area and the mission of the Agricultural
   Research Service.

   [flask.gif] Photo of Kate Nishijima after receiving Support scientist
   of the year. Good work Kate!

   [ Nondiscrimination Statement ] [System Usage Policy ] [ Endorsement
   Disclaimer ]

   Page last modifed on: 01/10/02
   Page Contact: pbarr@pbarc.ars.usda.gov
