http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/amprospect0521.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

                               Meet Mr. Death

                            The American Prospect

                                May 21, 2001

   By Joshua Green
   "Somebody once told me, 'Jim, we ought to call you Mr. Death,'" Jim
   Martin tells me proudly. "I'll have you know, I don't mind that
   appellation." These days, Mr. Death has reason to crow. Martin credits
   himself with coining the term "death tax" in 1993 as a usefully
   derisive nickname for the estate tax. As the founder and president of
   the 60 Plus Association -- sort of a conservative AARP devoted to
   repealing the estate tax -- Martin is one of the leading advocates for
   the tax's abolition. His crusade is enjoying considerable success. In
   April, for the second year in a row, the House of Representatives voted
   to repeal the tax, with Republicans again frustrating Democratic
   leaders by drawing substantial cross-party support. And in January,
   Martin got something he'd wanted for eight years: a man in the Oval
   Office willing to eliminate the estate tax. Several years ago, even the
   most optimistic conservatives would have been hard pressed to imagine
   such a triumph. But thanks in large part to Jim Martin, the estate tax
   -- which most people had never even heard of 10 years ago -- may be on
   the verge of repeal.
   When the original sponsor in the House -- Republican Christopher Cox of
   California -- first introduced a bill in 1993 to eliminate the tax, he
   didn't have a single co-sponsor. This year repeal drew 274 votes,
   including 58 Democrats. Arizona Senator Jon Kyl introduced a Senate
   version in 1995 that attracted a single co-sponsor; last year repeal
   drew 30 votes. When repeal passed the House last year, Democrats were
   stunned. "We didn't see this coming," admits one Democratic Senate
   aide. "This seemed like a radical idea three years ago when
   [Republicans] were out of power," laments another. "But -- boom! --
   here they are."
