http://www.crh.noaa.gov/ilx/coop/charleston.htm

   [ISMAP:ban-ilx-lb.gif]-NWS ILX Banner (ban-ilx-lb.gif )(10095 bytes)
        [ISMAP:othernws2.gif]-Text version/other NWS offices Image
                       (othernws2.gif) (1398 bytes)

                                    Home
                                Text Version
                              Other NWS Offices


                              Hazardous Weather

                          Watch/Warning Advisories
                             Severe Weather Data
                              Threat Assessment


                                Local Weather

                                  Forecasts
                             Current Conditions
                                Radar Images
                              Satellite Images
                                 Climatology
                               Winter Weather


                              Rivers/Hydrology

                              River Info/ AHPS
                                Flash Floods


                              Special Programs

                                  Aviation
                             Cooperative Program
                    Significant Weather Observing Program


                             Outreach/Education

                                 Stormready
                             NOAA Weather Radio
                                    EMWIN
                           Computer Model Guidance
                                Explorer Post
                           Lincoln Logs Newsletter
                                Spotter Talks
                               Special Events/
                                Case Studies
                               Weather Trivia


                                Miscellaneous

                             County Warning Area
                              About Our Office
                            Central Illinois AMS


                                 Other Links

                            NWS Central Region HQ
                          Commercial Weather Sites







        Space

                             Cooperative Observer Program
                  40 Year Length of Service Award for Charleston, IL
        Space


   On December 5, 2001, NWS staff, friends and family gathered in
   Charleston, IL to mark 40 years of observations by Dalias Price.
   Dalias began taking observations on April 1, 1960; the observing
   station was on the Eastern Illinois University campus, and Dalias, a
   professor at EIU, was assisted by some of his students.  The station
   was moved to his home in 1974.  The Charleston station itself has been
   in operation since 1880, and is part of the Historical Climate
   Network.

   Click on any of the pictures below to enlarge them.
   Dalias and Lillian Price
   Dalias and wife Lillian pose with the awards.  Besides a plaque
   commemorating 40 years of obseration, Dalias was presented with a
   letter of recognition from Jack Kelly, director of the NWS. Dalias with
   political representatives
   Representing government agencies were Ernie Goetsch, Meteorologist in
   Charge of the Lincoln NWS; state Sen. Dale Righter; Charleston Mayor
   Dan Cougill; and Lela Tapella, representing Congressman David Phelps.
   Dalias with state weather representatives
   Present for the awards ceremony are Jim Angel, Illinois state
   climatologist; Steve Hilberg, director of the Midwest Regional Climate
   Center; and Ernie Goetsch, Meteorologist in Charge of the Lincoln NWS.
   Dalias with NWS staff
   Several NWS staff members were present at the awards ceremony.

                           Questions Or Comments:
                         Send Email To:  WEBMASTER:
                           Homepage Maintained By:
                                Brad Ketcham
                      Last Updated on January 09, 2002

                            NWS Mission Statement

   Provide weather, hydrologic, and climate forecasts and warnings for the
    United States, its territories, adjacent waters and ocean areas,  for
   the protection of life and property and the enhancement of the national
   economy. NWS data and products form a national information database and
     infrastructure which can be used by other government agencies, the
            private sector, the public, and the global community.

   Every effort is made to post the latest weather information. However,
   occasions arise when access may be difficult. If you depend on weather
   information for mission critical use, read the full notice about
   accessing National Weather Service information via the Internet and our
   privacy statement.
   The NWS is an Equal Opportunity Employer that promotes Diversity in the
   workplace.
   Questions or comments, write to:
   National Weather Service
   1362 State Route 10
   Lincoln, IL 62656 Phone (M-F 8:30am-4pm CST) 217-732-3089 National
   Weather Service is a Division of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   AdministrationLAST UPDATED:01/09/02 Hompage best viewed at 800 x 600
   screen resolution or higher.
