http://newyork.fbi.gov/contact/fo/nyfo/nyjobopp.htm

       FBI Professional Support Put Your Special Skills to Special Use


   Blue Bullet Computer Specialist
   Blue Bullet Language Specialist
   Blue Bullet Police Officer
   Blue Bullet Evidence Technician
   Blue Bullet Telecommunications
   Equipment Operator
   Blue Bullet Financial Assistant/
   Analyst
   Blue Bullet Automotive Mechanic
   Blue Bullet Clerk
   Blue Bullet Secretary
   Blue Bullet Office Automation
   Blue Bullet Current Openings

   The FBI is one of the finest law enforcement agencies in the world. We
   are looking for bright individuals to fill non-Agent positions that
   complement the investigative mission of the FBI. As an employee of the
   Bureau, you will be asked to contribute to the welfare and security of
   the country. Therefore, we seek top-caliber, career-oriented
   individuals to help us serve our Nation. In return, you will be
   afforded continually challenging and rewarding opportunities. We have a
   proud past, and we urge you to help us build an equally proud and
   bright future.

   To apply on-line for specific job vacancies available at FBI
   Headquarters and in the 56 field offices and for information on FBI
   policies and practices, please visit the FBI's Employment Page.

                    THE FBI—A PROUD PAST, A BRIGHT FUTURE


   The FBI, originally 1908 as the Bureau of Investigation, serves as the
   investigative arm of the United States Department of Justice, with
   jurisdiction over more than 260 types of cases. The work of the FBI
   includes investigations into organized crime, white-collar crime,
   public corruption, financial crime, fraud against the Government,
   bribery, copyright matters, civil rights violations, bank robbery,
   extortion, kidnapping, air piracy, terrorism, foreign
   counterintelligence, interstate criminal activity, fugitive and drug
   trafficking matters, and other violations of Federal statutes.

   Today's FBI consists of over 13,000 non-Agent personnel and 9,500
   Special Agents. In addition to its role in law enforcement, the FBI
   assists state and local polices agencies with its Forensic Laboratory,
   National Crime Information Center, and Identification Division and by
   training hundreds of state and local law enforcement officers at the
   FBI Academy each year. All of these activities require a large and
   diverse staff of non-Agent personnel.

            POSITIONS WITH THE FBI OFFER EXCITING CAREER POTENTIAL


   FBI Headquarters in downtown Washington, D.C, is the nerve center for
   Bureau operations conducted throughout the United States and its
   possessions. Nationwide, there are 56 FBI field offices, each
   containing an additional number of satellite offices that together
   conduct the day-to-day operations of the FBI. The FBI also maintains
   liaison posts abroad in a number of foreign countries. These offices
   function in a liaison capacity in connection with criminal intelligence
   matters involving the FBI’s domestic responsibilities.

   Many opportunities exist in the Bureau for non-Agent personnel. The FBI
   offers excellent career paths to those with education, special skills
   or training in a variety of areas. As a member of the FBI technical,
   specialty, or clerical staff, you will have a ringside seat at events
   that make headlines. The work you do will have an impact on the
   Nation's security and the quality of life for all United States
   citizens. Although the largest number of non-Agent positions are
   available at FBI Headquarters, there are numerous opportunities in the
   New York Office of the FBI, the largest field office in the country.

       Federal Bureau of Investigation General Employment Information


   The employment process consists of several phases, which concludes with
   the background investigation. Upon successfully completing each phase,
   you will progress to the next phase of processing. Throughout the
   employment process you will be kept advised as to your status.

   As a Bureau employee, you may be required to travel or transfer to new
   locations on a permanent or temporary basis. In some cases, overtime
   work may be required in evenings or on weekends.

                      MANDATORY EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS


   - U.S. Citizenship
   - High School Graduate or Equivalent
   - Sixteen (16) years of age or older
   - Polygraph
   - Urinalysis

   PHASE I

   - Complete/Return Preliminary Application
   - Clerical Selection Exam
   - Training and Education Questionnaire (secretarial positions only)
   - Notification of test results
   - Complete Application (long form)

   PHASE II

   - Clerical Selection Structured Interview
   - Preliminary Questionnaire
   - Secretary Supplemental Selection Interview (secretarial positions
   only)
   - Typing Test (qualified typist positions only)
   - Dictation Transcription Test (word processor positions only)
   - Notification of test results

   PHASE III

   - Review Application with a Staffing Assistant
   - Polygraph
   - Urinalysis
   - Fingerprints
   - Status Letter

   PHASE IV

   - Background Investigation

                           CAREER DEVELOPMENT PATHS


   Your FBI career can provide you with many challenges in a variety of
   career paths. You may apply for training in fields other than those in
   which you enter work, after you establish a satisfactory work record
   with the FBI. Promotional opportunities are consistent with your
   overall qualifications and proficiency.

                   THE ADVANTAGES OF A CAREER WITH THE FBI


   Government service with the FBI entitles employees to a variety of
   benefits, including a full retirement plan, group health and life
   insurance programs, vacations and sick pay.  The FBI is firmly
   committed to affirmative action policies for minorities, women,
   veterans, and the disabled.

   For additional information regarding the above listing occupations call
   the New York Office Job Hotline: 212-384-8400 or Fax your resume to
   212-384-8366.

                [New York Office] [FBI Home] [FBI Employment]


   Last Modified 11/09/2000
