http://response.restoration.noaa.gov/intro/orr.html

   NOAA OR&R Home / About Us / NOAA OR&R

                   NOAA's Office of Response and Restoration

   The productivity and health of our nation’s coastal resources are
   threatened daily by human activities and natural events. OR&R is the
   focal point in NOAA for preventing, planning for, and responding to oil
   spills, releases of hazardous substances, and hazardous waste sites in
   coastal environments and restoring affected resources. OR&R protects
   and restores coastal resources through the application of science and
   technology. On behalf of the public, OR&R addresses environmental
   threats from catastrophic emergencies (oil spills like the Exxon
   Valdez); to chronic releases from contaminated sediments (such as the
   Hudson River Superfund site); to vessel groundings in sanctuaries (such
   as coral reefs in the Florida Keys). By working in partnerships, OR&R
   empowers communities and decision makers to be coastal stewards by
   transferring the results of its experience through training, guidance,
   and decision-making tools that emphasize actions that can be taken to
   improve coastal health.

   The Hazardous Materials Response Division consists of an
   interdisciplinary scientific team that responds to oil and chemical
   spills and other emergencies in U.S. coastal and navigable waters. The
   team provides and coordinates advice on science and natural resource
   issues to the Unified Command (as defined in the Oil Pollution Act of
   1990, 33 U.S.C. Sec. 2701-2761), under the National Oil and Hazardous
   Substances Pollution Contingency Plan. The Division forecasts the
   movement and behavior of spilled oil and chemicals, evaluates the risk
   to resources, and recommends protection priorities and appropriate
   cleanup actions. It strengthens its response capabilities and those of
   the nation's response community by conducting research and monitoring,
   developing software products and technical guidance, and transferring
   these tools and expertise through training locally, nationally, and
   internationally. The Division has placed scientists in the field to
   work with representatives of the response community to improve
   preparedness and to transfer technology to strengthen the national
   response system. To ensure effective integration of its expertise, the
   Division operates using a specialty teams approach, forming
   problem-specific groups of scientists to address prevention,
   preparedness, and response issues.

   The Coastal Protection and Restoration Division (CPRD) implements the
   Secretary of Commerce's natural resource trusteeship by protecting and
   restoring coastal habitats and resources affected by hazardous
   materials releases. The Division works with the Environmental
   Protection Agency (EPA), other lead hazardous waste cleanup agencies
   (e.g., Department of Defense and States), natural resource trustees,
   and responsible parties throughout the CERCLA remedial process to
   ensure that selected remedies are protective and that appropriate
   measures are implemented to restore NOAA trust resources. Division
   scientists, placed in EPA regional offices, provide technical advice on
   ecological risk, contaminated sediments, and remedial issues at over
   350 coastal waste sites.

   The Division works with other agencies to attain negotiated global
   settlements to resolve cleanup and natural resource liability and to
   restore injured habitat. CPRD, in partnership with coastal managers,
   develops and implements combined database and mapping projects to
   evaluate coastal contamination and to develop watershed-wide
   restoration solutions. Through technical assistance and training, the
   Division transfers its expertise and technologies to other natural
   resource trustee agencies to improve the overall protection and
   restoration of the nation's natural resources.

   The Damage Assessment Center implements the Secretary of Commerce's
   responsibilities for natural resource damage assessment for releases of
   oil and hazardous substances. DAC scientists and economists provide the
   technical foundation for these assessments and work with other trustees
   and responsible parties to restore resources injured by releases of oil
   and hazardous substances, as well as injury to resources of National
   Marine Sanctuaries and Estuarine Research Reserves. DAC collects data,
   conducts studies, and performs analyses needed to determine whether
   coastal resources have sustained injury from releases of oil or
   hazardous materials, how to restore injured resources, and to ascertain
   the damages that must be recovered to accomplish restoration.

   DAC has collected more than $200 million in damages to support 35
   restoration programs on the nation’s coasts. DAC develops and tests new
   approaches, techniques, and procedures for improved and cost-effective
   damage assessment and restoration of trust resources and transfers this
   knowledge through training and technical assistance to other natural
   resource trustees, coastal managers, and other decision makers. A
   current project is to address the impact of abandoned vessels on coral
   reef ecosystems.

Factsheets

     * Protecting Our Coastal Environment (190K PDF file) Overview of
       NOAA's Office of Response and Restoration.
     * Protecting Coastal Resources at Hazardous Waste Sites (99K PDF
       file) Overview of the Coastal Protection and Restoration Division
       and its activities.
     * HAZMAT (190K PDF file) Overview of NOAA OR&R's Hazardous Materials
       Division and its activities.

   Back to About Us

   Revised: January 14, 2002
   Office of Response and Restoration, National Ocean Service, National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   orr.webmaster@noaa.gov
