http://www.mvhcb.gov/mvhcb_13h/charter.htm


   Skip to content area Skip to left side navigation Skip to documents
   Skip to bottom page
   MVHCB logo

   Documents
   PRD-5
   Force Health Protection
   Research Reports
   Clinical Practice Guidelines
   Health Consequences of the Gulf War
   Deployment Readiness-a review of sexual trauma
   Related Links
   Veterans Affairs
   Health & Human Services
   Defense Link News
   Office of the Special Assistant for Gulf War Illness
   Other DOD, DHHS and VA agencies



   MVHCB title
               News & Events Home Members Only FAQs

   Charter


   CHARTER FOR THE MILITARY AND VETERANS HEALTH COORDINATING BOARD
   A. Official Designation
   The Military and Veterans Health Coordinating Board ("Board").
   B. Authority
   On November 11, 1998 President William J. Clinton directed the
   establishment of an interagency body to ensure coordination among the
   respective agencies of the clinical, research, and health risk
   communication issues related to the health of military service members
   and veterans during and after deployments. The Secretaries of the
   Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, and Health and Human Services
   establish by this charter the Military and Veterans Health Coordinating
   Board as a permanent interagency body to ensure coordination on a broad
   range of health-related issues for military service members and
   veterans of military service.
   C. Mission, Objectives and Scope of Activities
   The primary mission of the Board is to ensure coordination among the
   Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, and Health and Human Services
   on a broad range of military and veterans' health matters to achieve
   the Nation's commitment to maintain, protect and preserve the health of
   the men and women who serve in the U.S. Armed Forces. The Board
   addresses health matters that relate to military service with a primary
   focus on the health of military members, veterans, deployed civilians,
   and their families during and after future combat and other operations.
   The Board addresses health matters related to current and past members
   of the Active and Reserve Components (including the National Guard) of
   the U.S. Armed Forces. The responsibilities of the Board include
   coordination of those responsibilities and activities that are
   statutorily prescribed for the participating agencies.  The Board
   provides recommendations and coordination for deployment health and
   research activities as well as for outreach and health risk
   communication efforts with veterans, the public, other federal
   government entities, military and veterans' service organizations,
   health professionals, scientific professional societies, the media, and
   state, county, and local governments.
   D. Membership
   1.  The Members of the Board are the Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
   Secretary of Defense, and Secretary of Health and Human Services. The
   three Secretaries are Co-Chairs of the Board.
   2. The Principal Alternate Members are the Under Secretary for Health
   of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Assistant Secretary of
   Defense for Health Affairs, and the Assistant Secretary for Health of
   the Department of Health and Human Services.
   3. Each Principal Alternate Member shall designate a primary liaison
   official to the Board staff.
   E. Working Groups
   The primary work of the Board is carried out through three Working
   Groups to address issues related to deployment health, health care,
   research, and health risk communication. Working Group membership is
   comprised of representatives of the respective Departments. The
   Co-Chairs of the Board shall select the Chair of each Working Group.
   The Working Groups
   have the following functions:
   1 . The Deployment Health Working Group (DHWG) monitors and coordinates
   interagency activities related to the force health protection and joint
   medical surveillance programs of the Department of Defense. The DHWG
   monitors the contingency and deployment health planning of the Armed
   Forces. With guidance from the military and civilian health care and
   health research community, the DHWG makes recommendations to enhance
   force health protection and medical surveillance programs, including:
   preventive countermeasures, pre- and post-deployment health
   assessments, medical surveillance during deployments, combat stress
   control, and individual and environmental exposure assessments. The
   DHWG defines interagency priorities for the assessment and prevention
   of deployment and post-deployment health issues. In addition, the DHWG
   makes recommendations to the relevant agencies on their preparations
   for post-deployment health evaluation and the health care needs of
   military members, veterans, deployed civilians, and their families. The
   DHWG provides recommendations to the agencies to ensure the appropriate
   integration of surveillance, research, and clinical findings into
   ongoing programs of prevention, diagnosis, and clinical care, and when
   appropriate recommends areas of research emphasis. The DHWG maintains
   an ongoing review of compliance with the recommendations of external
   review bodies and provides recommendations to the Board to ensure that
   "lessons learned" from combat operations and other military deployments
   and research findings are treated into effective preparation for future
   operations.
   2. The Research Working Group (RWG) provides recommendations and
   coordination for research activities on deployment health issues
   affecting active duty members, veterans, deployed civilians, and their
   families. The RWG coordinates deployment health-related research
   studies developed from ongoing and new initiatives that receive federal
   funding. To prevent unnecessary duplication and to assure that
   resources are directed toward high priority studies, the RWG is the
   forum for information exchange from the research community at large and
   research coordination among the three participating Departments. The
   RWG encourages independent, scientific peer review of research in all
   its activities. The RWG assesses the state and direction of research on
   deployment and post-deployment health issues, identifies gaps in
   knowledge and understanding of issues relevant to service member and
   veteran health, proposes testable hypotheses, recommends research
   directions for participating agencies, reviews research concepts as
   they are developed, and collects and disseminates information on
   scientifically peer-reviewed research.  The RWG monitors the medical
   and scientific literature regarding preventive measures and potential
   physiological, psychological, occupational, and environmental hazards
   to which service members may be exposed. The RWG will make
   recommendations concerning appropriate responses and actions to
   research findings. It maintains an ongoing review of the status of
   compliance with recommendations of external review bodies regarding
   research. If directed by the Co-Chairs of the Board, the RWG may, in
   areas of funded research on deployment health, set priorities and make
   final recommendations to participating federal agencies regarding
   research funding.

   3. The Health Risk Communication Working Group (HRCWG) provides
   recommendations and coordination for the health risk communication
   efforts of the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, and Health and
   Human Services for military members, veterans, deployed civilians, and
   their families.  The HRCWG's focus is on health risk communication
   efforts before, during, and after combat operations and other
   deployments. The HRCWG coordinates interagency advice to the Department
   of Defense on health risk communication strategies and appropriate
   health risk communication research in areas of deployment-related
   preventive measures and potentially hazardous exposures. The HRCWG
   coordinates interagency activities to provide health care providers
   with up-to-date guidance on health risk communication about deployment
   and battlefield health risks, preventive measures, and treatments. One
   focus of this effort is Departments of Veteran Affairs and Defense
   health care providers, particularly those providing health assessments
   and health care services before, during, and after combat operations
   and other military deployments.
   F. Military and Veterans Health Coordinating Board Staff and Executive
   Director
   1. The Board is staffed by representatives of the Departments of
   Veterans Affairs, Defense, and Health and Human Services as designated
   by the Members or Principal Alternate Members. The Board staff assists
   in all functions of the Board and the Working Groups.
   2. The Board staff serves as the focal point for information related to
   the Departments' cooperative and independent efforts concerning
   deployment and post-deployment heafth-related issues. The Board staff
   will coordinate development of interagency health risk communication
   and outreach programs on deployment and post-deployment military and
   veterans' health issues.
   3. An Executive Director is appointed by the Principal Alternate Member
   for the Department of Veterans Affairs after concurrence with the other
   two Principal Alternate Members. The Executive Director is a full-time
   professional assignment to support the activities of the Board's and,
   as assigned, other interagency coordinating activities. For
   administrative purposes, the Executive Director reports to the Under
   Secretary for Health, Department of Veteran Affairs. The Executive
   Director develops an annual strategic plan for the Board subject to the
   approval of the Members, acts as a spokesperson for Board, provides
   oversight of Board staff activities; and serves as the Board's primary
   point of contact for the Secretaries, Principal Alternate Members, the
   White House staff, and the Working Group chairs.
   4. Each Department provides appropriate staff to ensure efficient and
   effective functioning of the Board. At minimum, the Board staff
   includes: an Executive Director, three staff officers in the areas of
   military public health, health science, and health risk communication,
   and an administrator/program analyst. The Members or Principal
   Alternate Members in coordination may change the composition of the
   Board staff.
   G. Administrative Support
   Administrative support to the Board and Working Groups is a shared
   responsibility of the three Departments. The operational expenses of
   the Board shall be provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
   H. Reports
   The Board shall coordinate or make reports to Congress or the President
   as may be directed by law or the President, and shall make such other
   reports as the three Members may direct.
   I. Duration of Charter
   This Charter will expire December 31, 2000, subject to rechartering by
   the Members of the Board.                                              ^Top


   [hr.gif]

   [ News & Events | Home | Members Only | FAQs ]

   [ Contact Us | Private Policy | VA Disclaimer ]
