http://nuclear.gov/page.html

   What's News


                 NERI Fiscal Year 2002 Solicitation
   [tech_02.gif] The Department of Energy's FY 2002 Nuclear Energy
   Research Initiative (NERI) solicitation and laboratory program
   announcement were issued on January 18, 2002. The solicitation is
   available through DOE's Industry Interactive Procurement System (IIPS).
   The Nuclear Energy Research Initiative (NERI) sponsors research to
   address the principal technical and scientific issues affecting the
   future use of nuclear energy. NERI also helps preserve the nuclear
   science and engineering research infrastructure within our Nation's
   universities, laboratories, and industry. Research areas in the FY 2002
   NERI solicitation include advanced nuclear energy systems,
   nuclear-based hydrogen production, advanced nuclear fuel/fuel cycles,
   and fundamental science. 1/24/2002

   Notice of Program Interest
   [nucmedicine-little.gif] The Office of Isotopes for Medicine and
   Science solicits responses to a Notice of Program Interest for
   providing Ra-224/Bi-212 generators from DOE provided U-232". 1/22/2002
   "A Roadmap to Deploy New Nuclear Power Plants
   in the United States by 2010"
   Following an 11 month effort, the Department of Energy's Office of
   Nuclear Energy, Science and Technology has issued a roadmap for the
   deployment of new nuclear power plants in the United States. A Nuclear
   Energy Research Advisory Committee (NERAC) working group was
   established in January 2001 to identify and evaluate the technological
   and institutional issues affecting the near-term Click here to access
   Report deployment of new nuclear plants in the United States. The
   working group was comprised of individuals representing nuclear
   utilities, reactor vendors, industry research organizations, national
   laboratories and academia. The results of this group's effort are
   documented in a two volume report entitled "A Roadmap to Deploy New
   Nuclear Power Plants in the United States by 2010". The Volume I -
   Summary Report provides an overview of the evaluation results,
   conclusions and recommendations. Volume II provides details of the
   nuclear plant design options evaluated, generic and design-specific gap
   analysis, nuclear plant economic analysis, as well as details on the
   conclusions and recommendations. The "Roadmap to Deploy New Nuclear
   Power Plants in the United States by 2010" can be accessed through the
   Advisory Committee report section of this website. 1/3/2002


   Office of Nuclear Energy Science and Technology Approves the Restart of
   the High Flux Isotope Reactor

   [berefl1.jpg] After a 15-month outage to replace its permanent
   beryllium reflector, the High Flux Isotope Reactor has successfully
   resumed full-power (85 megawatt) operations. Replacement of the
   reactor's permanent reflector is normally performed about once every
   decade, and requires significant disassembly of core components and
   removal of all the neutron scattering beam tubes and their associated
   analytical instruments. The outage provided an outstanding opportunity
   to upgrade neutron scattering capabilities at the reactor by installing
   larger beam tubes and upgraded beam lines and instrumentation. The
   modifications will provide the nation's most intense steady-state beams
   for neutron scattering research while preserving the unique isotope
   production and materials irradiation capabilities of the reactor. One
   beam line has been modified to accommodate a high-performance cold
   neutron source, which is currently being constructed. When completed,
   HFIR will generate both cold and thermal neutron scattering beams with
   steady-state intensities that are unsurpassed in the world. These
   neutron beams will offer important new capabilities for research on the
   atomic-scale structure and dynamics of materials and macromolecular
   systems. More.... 12/31/2001

   Innovations in Nuclear Infrastructure and Education

   The Department of Energy's Office of Nuclear Energy, Science and
   Technology announced the solicitation for the Innovations in Nuclear
   Infrastructure and Education (INIE) program on December 20, 2001. The
   solicitation is open to all U.S. colleges and universities with nuclear
   reactor facilities or state-operated reactors not operated by a
   university but used by the university community. These institutions are
   encouraged to form strategic partnerships with other universities (can
   be non-reactor and/or non-nuclear institutions), national laboratories,
   and U.S. industry for the purpose of strengthening the Nation's
   university nuclear engineering education programs. Proposals must be
   submitted by March 11, 2002 for awards beginning in the summer of 2002.
   12/21/2001

   Isotope Business Activites Centralized

   Beginning February 4, 2002, in an effort to improve customer service
   and reduce administrative costs, all business activities will be
   centralized within the Oak Ridge National Laboratory's Isotope Business
   Office. The Isotope Business Office will issue official quotations,
   accept orders, schedule shipments, expedite orders, invoice, and
   collect payments for products and services provided by all Department
   of Energy's isotope producing sites. It is our intention that this
   office will be your full service contact for these matters. The
   information for inquiring about isotope products and services or
   invoices is: Isotope Business Office, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, P.
   O. Box 2009, Oak Ridge, TN 37831-8044, Phone: (865) 574-6984, Fax:
   (865) 574-6986, E-Mail: clinerl@ornl.gov.

   Isotope customers can be assured that you can continue your technical
   interactions with each of the producing sites. 12/18/2001
   Other News
     * Department of Energy Meets Goal of Treating Sodium-Bonded Spent
       Nuclear Fuel Six Weeks Ahead of Schedule
     * Solicitation for a Study of Potential Sites for the Deployment of
       New Nuclear Power Plants in the U. S.
     * Department of Energy and University of California - Davis
       Collaborate to Produce Medical Isotopes for Treatment of Prostate
       Cancer
     * U.S. Leads Establishment of Generation IV International Forum for
       Nuclear Energy Cooperation
     * U.S. Signs Bilateral R&D Agreement with France
     * First International Nuclear Energy Research Initiative Agreement

   Quick Links

                              FROM THE DIRECTOR
                                   BUDGET
                                 FACILITIES
                                INTERNATIONAL

                                               NE Reports

                                                              ISOTOPES
                                                           SPACE & DEFENSE
                                                         UNIVERSITY PROGRAMS
                                                           ACROBAT READER

          NUCLEAR ENERGY PLANT OPTIMIZATION
         NUCLEAR ENERGY RESEARCH INITIATIVE
   GENERATION IV NUCLEAR ENERGY SYSTEMS INITIATIVE

   TOP
