http://www.t4.lanl.gov/tdiv-features99/timmermans.99.pdf

   Theoretical Division - Self-Assessment Special Feature May 1999 T-4
   Atomic & Optical Theory Superfluid Gas Mixtures Eddy M. Timmermans Like
   condensed-matter superfluids, atomic-trap Bose- Einstein condensates
   (BECs) are coherent matter-wave systems. But as dilute atomic gases,
   BECs are ame- nable to the techniques of atomic physics and display a
   flexibility that is highly unusual for superfluids. A par- ticularly
   exciting prospectdistinguishable boson con- densate mixturesis a
   subject of our research in T-4. Such mixtures were created only
   recently in a labora- tory environment: Ketterle's group at MIT and the
   Wieman-Cornell collaboration at JILA observed con- Thus, the analysis
   suggests the BEC Feshbach resonance as a route to the creation of the
   first example of a rarified liquid. densate mixtures of same-species
   alkali atoms in dif- ferent atomic states. We pointed out that the
   conden- sates separate spatially into a system of immiscible flu- ids
   if the inter-condensate interaction dominates intra- condensate
   interactions. This prediction, which has since been verified in the MIT
   experiments, suggests interesting applications to BEC technology
   including the reintroduction of the concept of a `wall' to confine one
   of the condensates. Recent calculations, in collaboration with Lee A.
   Collins (T-4), have increased our understanding of the small con-
   densate limit. For instance, we found that the immisci- bility does not
   materialize unless the smaller one of the condensates contains a
   minimum number of atoms. Figure: Density distributions of two phase The
   condensates of a mixture can coherently exchange separated condensates
   in a spherically symmetric bosons. We have uncovered a rather
   surprising example trap. The smaller condensate of 105 atoms (upper of
   such inter-condensate tunneling: the BEC near the right) is surrounded
   by a larger condensate of low energy Feshbach resonance originally
   proposed as 106 atoms (lower right). Los Alamos Theoretical Division -
   Self-Assessment - Special Feature a scheme to alter the atom-atom
   interactions. The in- teractions that brings the atoms to an
   intermediate bound state molecule in the binary atom resonance create a
   second condensate component of molecules in the atomic condensate. The
   atomic and molecular condensates coherently exchange pairs of atoms.
   The system's time evolution can be characterized as co- herent
   atom-molecule matter-wave dynamics. In re- sponse to a sudden change of
   the detuning, the popu- lations of the atomic and molecular condensates
   os- cillate in a Josephson-like manner. However, in con- trast to
   Josephson exchange, two atomic bosons are required to form a single
   molecular boson. As a con- sequence of the resulting double condensate
   coher- ence, the many-body ground state has the liquid-like property of
   a self-determined density. The value of this density typically does not
   exceed present-day BEC-densities. Thus, the analysis suggests the BEC
   Feshbach resonance as a route to the creation of the first example of a
   rarified liquid. Together with Peter Milonni (T-4), we studied the hy-
   brid atomic/molecular condensates in an ongoing col- laboration that
   involves physicists of different fields and different institutions:
   Arthur Kerman (MIT), Paolo Tommasini (Harvard), Robin Cote (Harvard,
   Univer- sity of Connecticut) and Mahir Hussein (University of San
   Paulo, Brazil). We plan to extend our studies to dilute fermionic su-
   perfluids, which are particularly relevant to antici- pated experiments
   of David Vieira's group in CST-11 at Los Alamos. Special thanks to Lee
   A. Collins, T-4, for the two graphics. A U.S. Department of Energy
   Laboratory eddy@t4.lanl.gov This paper is a portion of LA-UR-99-336.
   Los Alamos
