http://snfactory.lbl.gov/snifs_brochure.ps

   The SuperNova Integral Field Spectrograph SNIFS is a two-channel
   optical spectrograph equipped with a microlensearray integral field
   unit. The blue channel will cover 3500--5700*A at a fixed dispersion of
   , 2:2*A/pixel, while the red channel will cover 5300-10500*A at a fixed
   dispersion of , 3:0*A/pixel. The nominal resolution is set by the pixel
   sampling, and is therefore ffi*=* , 1200. The two channels can be
   operated together or separately, and are split using a dichroic
   beam-splitter with a nominal half-power point at 5500*A. The target
   system throughput is 30% or better over 50% of the spectral range, and
   no worse than 10% anywhere over the full spectral range. The integral
   field unit consists of a 15 \Theta 15 array of fused silica
   microlenses, and will sample a 6" \Theta 6" region around the target at
   a resolution of 0.4" per lenselet. The optics are all transmission
   elements, including the dispersive element which is a total internal
   reflection prism mated to a grism. The detectors will be LBNL/UCB
   high-resistivity fullydepleted CCD's, of size 2048 \Theta 4096, with
   high-performance AR coatings. A conceptual drawing of SNIFS is
   presented in Figure 1. SNIFS includes a photometry camera run in
   parallel with the spectrograph. This photometry camera is designed to
   allow photometric normalization of the spectroscopic observations so
   that spectrophotometric observations can be obtained even under
   non-photometric sky conditions. The photometry camera and spectrograph
   will utilize the same shutter so that observations with both
   instruments are guaranteed to have identical observing conditions. The
   photometry camera will have one or more filters, probably fixed (TBD).
   Again, it is likely that an LBNL/UCB 2048 \Theta 4096 CCD will be used.
   SNIFS contains its own guider camera. Most likely a LBNL/UCB 2048
   \Theta 4096 CCD will be used as the detector, although a commercial
   guider camera may be considered. The guider obtains a panoramic image
   from which a suitable guide star is selected. Subsequently, a
   sub-region of the guider CCD centered on the guide star is read at a
   rate of several Hz and analyzed to provide a signal to the telescope
   guider motors. A portion of the guide camera is covered with a
   cylindrical lense or wedge to provide a signal for control of the
   telescope focus. SNIFS is also equipped with a calibration unit for the
   spectrograph which will provide for spectral flats and arc exposures.
   Flat-field correction for the photometry camera will rely on dome flats
   and sky flats. Twilight flats will be useful for both the spectrograph
   and the photometry camera, and will be obtained when possible. The
   intended operational mode for SNIFS is quasi queue observing. Target
   coordinates and exposure sequences are generated automatically, but a
   night assistant is required to move the telescope to the required
   coordinates during an appropriate time window. It is anticipated that
   with the telescope close to the correct nominal coordinates, the
   photometry camera will provide images from which a coordinate offset
   can be computed quickly, and sent to the telescope and the guider to
   execute. This step may not be needed if the telescope pointing is
   sufficiently accurate that the target is always well-place within the
   field of the SNIFS IFU. Depending on the level of automation of the
   telescope focus, a night assistant may also have to adjust the focus to
   a value given by the SNIFS guider. An assistant is needed to refill the
   four dewars with LN2 twice daily. Draft v0.2 Greg Aldering revised June
   16, 2000
