http://www.doh.wa.gov/Standards/Default.htm

   DOH Logo linking to the DOH Home Page

                                        [StandardsBanner.gif]

   [Line336699.gif]

You are here: DOH Home  » Standards for Public Health

                                                                                                           Search | Employees

                                                      [spacer.gif]

    Site Directory:

   • 2000 PHIP
   • 2000 PHIP - Summary

   Access Washington Logo linking to Access Washington Home Page
   Standards for Public Health in Washington State

   A Collaborative Effort by State and Local Health Officials

   June, 2001

   Contents

   Background

   Understanding health issues

   Protecting people from disease

   Assuring a safe, healthy environment for people

   Prevention is best: promoting healthy living

   Helping people get the services they need

   Background: Standards for Public Health in Washington State

   People depend on the governmental public health system to respond to
   public health threats and to prevent costly health problems that cause
   illness or death. Every resident and visitor, throughout the state,
   should be assured that the public health system is working to protect
   their health at all times. Standards for Public Health in Washington
   State provides a common, consistent and accountable approach to
   assuring that basic health protection is in place.

   Standards for Public Health in Washington State
   was developed in a collaborative process involving more than 100 public
   health professionals who work at state and local health departments.
   They shared their scientific knowledge and practical experience to
   define standards for the governmental public health system.

   The importance of standards

   Common standards provide a clear and accountable measure of performance
   for public health agencies a level of protection citizens can count on.
   Setting standards for public health will help us identify what we need
   to do to strengthen public health protection and will also let us
   measure improvements in the effectiveness of the public health system.

   State laws require that we set basic standards for public health as a
   part of the biennial Public Health Improvement Plan, a process designed
   to strengthen the public health system in order to improve the health
   of people. (See: RCW 43.70.520 and RCW 43.70.580)

   Complementary roles for state and local government

   In Washington State, responsibility for public health protection is
   shared among the Washington State Department of Health, the State Board
   of Health, and 34 local government public health jurisdictions with
   local boards of health.

   Local and state agencies perform different tasks. They have unique, but
   complementary, roles and they rely on one another to make the public
   health system work. The standards recognize that state and local
   responsibilities are different. A single standard is proposed for the
   public health system, with separate state and local measures that
   demonstrate whether a standard is met. All residents depend on this
   strong partnership between state and local government.

   This set of standards was purposely limited to the responsibilities of
   state and local government. The contributions of non-government health
   providers and community-based organizations are essential, but they are
   separate from the specific accountability expected of government
   agencies.

   A common sense framework addressing five key areas

   The standards cover five key aspects of public health, selected because
   they represent basic protection that should be in place everywhere:

     * Understanding health issues
     * Protecting people from disease
     * Assuring a safe and healthy environment for people
     * Promoting healthy living
     * Helping people get the services they need.

   In developing standards, the guiding principles were: define what is
   basic, use clear language, describe what every jurisdiction should be
   able to do regardless of size or location, incorporate the ideas of
   nationally described core functions and essential services of public
   health, and support the standards with a few carefully selected
   measures that demonstrate whether the standards have been met.

   The standards focus on the capacity of our public health agencies to
   perform certain functions, and not on specific health issues. A public
   health system that is well organized, meeting a common set of basic
   standards and adopting best practices, is better prepared to help bring
   about improvements in health. In a separate effort, we are developing a
   list of leading health indicators that will help answer the questions:
   How healthy are we? What are our significant health problems? Who is
   most affected? Indicators were separated from standards because of the
   belief that it is important to focus on both health trends and the
   level of performance in the public health system.

   The standards are not intended to substitute for the complex body of
   public health law, multiple regulations and individual county
   ordinances that have developed over time. The laws and regulations are
   vitally important to public health protection, but each is intended to
   address very specific issues. Standards for Public Health in Washington
   State provides a framework to assess how well our governmental public
   health system is working, overall; existing laws and regulations fit
   very well within that framework.

   Field test results

   The standards were field-tested in summer 2000 with on-site visits to
   every local health jurisdiction and many state health department
   programs. The purpose of the field test was to determine how well the
   standards and measures worked for evaluation. The standards and
   measures held up very well in testing and some additional measures were
   added. The visits also yielded a collection of best practice materials
   that are being shared statewide so that agencies can more easily meet a
   standard, adapting existing work to fit their needs.

   Meeting the standards will take time

   The next step in the process of developing standards is to conduct a
   baseline test. That will give us our first real documentation of how
   far we are from meeting the standards today.

   From the field test, it was learned that some standards are met now,
   and some will take time or resources to achieve. It is expected that
   some standards will be beyond our reach for some time to come. Yet,
   even these unmet standards will provide an important guidepost for our
   future and a way to measure progress as we work toward meeting them.

   The standards are expected to become part of the contract between the
   state and local agencies in the future, but we expect they will be
   phased in, using the results of the baseline study. The Public Health
   Improvement Plan Act of 1995 required that the state develop
   "performance-based contracts" with each local agency, based on "the
   core functions of public health." Our approach has been to develop the
   standards collaboratively with both state and local officials, and to
   set forth a specific timeline for meeting the standards only after we
   have had time to assess our capacity to meet them.

   Public health is everyones concern

   People care about issues that affect their health. On any given day, a
   glance at the newspaper articles reminds us that people place high
   value of public health protection. Setting standards for performance of
   our public health system will assure that basic protection is available
   to all people in Washington State.

  On the following pages
  Standard               applies to the whole governmental public health system
  Local Measures         lists measures to show that a local health jurisdiction
                         meets the standard
  State Measures         lists measures to show that the State Department of
                         Health meets the standard
  While many different measures could be used, these were selected as the
  best and most practical measures to indicate how well the public health
  system is meeting each standard.
  DOH                    Washington State Department of Health
  LHJ                    Local Health Jurisdiction
  BOH                    Local Board of Health

   Table of Contents

   Understanding Health Issues

   Standards for Public Health Assessment

   Standard 1

   Public health assessment skills and tools are in place in all public
   health jurisdictions and their level is continuously maintained and
   enhanced.

   Local measures:
    1. Current information on health issues affecting the community is
       readily accessible, including standardized quantitative and
       qualitative data.
    2. There is a written procedure describing how and where to obtain
       technical assistance on assessment issues.
    3. Goals and objectives are established for assessment activities as a
       part of LHJ planning, and staff or outside assistance is identified
       to perform the work.
    4. Information on health issues affecting the community is updated
       regularly and includes information on communicable disease,
       environmental health and health status. Data being tracked have
       standard definitions, and standardized qualitative or quantitative
       measures are used. Computer hardware and software is available to
       support word processing, spreadsheets with basic analysis
       capabilities, databases and Internet access.
    5. Staff who perform assessment activities have documented training
       and experience in epidemiology, research, and data analysis.
       Attendance at trainings and peer exchange opportunities to expand
       available assessment expertise is documented.

   State measures:
    1. Consultation and technical assistance are provided to LHJs and
       state programs on health data collection and analysis, as
       documented by logs or reports. Coordination is provided in the
       development and use of data standards, including definitions and
       descriptions.
    2. Written procedures are maintained and disseminated for how to
       obtain consultation and technical assistance for LHJs or state
       programs regarding health data collection and analysis, and program
       evaluation.
    3. Goals and objectives are established for assessment activities as a
       part of DOH planning, and resources are identified to perform the
       work.
    4. Information on health issues affecting the state is updated
       regularly and includes information on communicable disease,
       environmental health and data about health status. Data being
       tracked have standard definitions, and standardized qualitative or
       quantitative measures are used. Computer hardware and software is
       available to support word processing, spreadsheets, complex
       analysis capabilities, databases and Internet access.
    5. Staff members who perform assessment activities have documented
       training and experience in epidemiology, research, and data
       analysis. Statewide training and peer exchange opportunities are
       coordinated and documented.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 2

   Information about environmental threats and community health status is
   collected, analyzed and disseminated at intervals appropriate for the
   community.

   Local measures:
    1. Assessment data is provided to community groups and representatives
       of the broader community for review and identification of emerging
       issues that may require investigation.
    2. The Board of Health receives information on local health indicators
       at least annually.
    3. Assessment procedures describe how population level investigations
       are carried out for documented or emerging health issues and
       problems.
    4. Assessment investigations of changing or emerging health issues are
       part of the LHJs annual goals and objectives.
    5. A core set of health status indicators, which may include selected
       local indicators, is used as the basis for continuous monitoring of
       the health status of the community. A surveillance system using
       monitoring data is maintained to signal changes in priority health
       issues.

   State measures:
    1. Reports are provided to LHJs and other groups. The reports provide
       health information analysis and include key health indicators
       tracked over time.
    2. A core set of health status indicators is used as the basis for
       continuous monitoring of the health status of the state, and
       results are published at scheduled intervals. A surveillance system
       using monitoring data is maintained to signal changes in priority
       health issues.
    3. Written procedures describe how population level investigations are
       carried out in cooperation with LHJs in response to known or
       emerging health issues. The procedures include expected time frames
       for response.
    4. Investigations of changing or emerging health issues are part of
       the annual goals and objectives established by DOH.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 3

   Public health program results are evaluated to document effectiveness.

   Local measures:
    1. The annual report to the BOH includes progress towards program
       goals.
    2. There is a written procedure for using appropriate data to evaluate
       program effectiveness. Programs, whether provided directly or
       contracted, have written goals, objectives and performance
       measures, and are based on relevant research.
    3. Program performance measures are monitored, the data is analyzed,
       and regular reports document the progress towards goals.
    4. All LHJ program staff have training in methods to evaluate
       performance against goals and assess program effectiveness.
    5. Changes in activities that are based on analysis of key indicator
       data or performance measurement data are summarized as a part of
       quality improvement activities.

   State measures:
    1. Consultation and technical assistance are provided to LHJs and
       state programs on program evaluation, as documented by case
       write-ups or logs.
    2. Programs administered by the DOH have written goals, objectives and
       performance measures, and are based on relevant research. There is
       a written protocol for using appropriate data to evaluate program
       effectiveness.
    3. Program performance measures are monitored, the data is analyzed,
       and regular reports document the progress towards goals.
    4. State and LHJ staff members have been trained on program evaluation
       as evidenced by documentation of staff training.
    5. Changes in activities that are based on analysis of key indicator
       data or performance measurement data are summarized as a part of
       quality improvement activities.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 4

   Health policy decisions are guided by health assessment information,
   with involvement of representative community members.

   Local measures:
    1. There is documentation of community involvement in the process of
       reviewing health data and recommending action such as further
       investigation, new program effort or policy direction.
    2. The annual report to the BOH summarizes assessment data, including
       environmental health, and the recommended actions for health policy
       decisions as evidenced through program, budget, and grant
       applications.
    3. There is a written protocol for developing recommendations for
       action using health assessment information to guide health policy
       decisions.
    4. Key indicator data being tracked and related recommendations are
       used in evaluating goals and objectives.

   State measures:
    1. There is documentation of stakeholder involvement in DOH health
       assessment and policy development.
    2. There is a written protocol for using health assessment information
       to guide health policy decisions.
    3. State health assessment data is linked to health policy decisions,
       as evidenced through legislative requests, budget decisions,
       programs or grants.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 5

   Health data is handled so that confidentiality is protected and health
   information systems are secure.

   Local measures:
    1. Community members and stakeholders that receive data have
       demonstrated agreement to comply with confidentiality policies and
       practices, as appropriate.
    2. There are written policies regarding confidentiality. Written
       policies, including data sharing agreements, govern the use,
       sharing and transfer of data within the LHJ and with partner
       agencies. Written protocols are followed for assuring protection of
       data (passwords, firewalls, backup systems) and data systems.
    3. All program data are submitted to local, state, regional and
       federal agencies in a confidential and secure manner.
    4. Employees are trained regarding confidentiality, including those
       who handle patient information and clinical records, as well as
       those handling data.
    5. All employees and BOH members, as appropriate, have signed
       confidentiality statements.

   State measures:
    1. Stakeholders that receive data have demonstrated agreement to
       comply with confidentiality policies and practices, as appropriate.
    2. There are written policies, including data sharing agreements,
       regarding confidentiality that govern the use, sharing and transfer
       of data within the DOH and among the DOH, LHJs and partner
       agencies. Written protocols are followed for assuring protection of
       data (passwords, firewalls, backup systems) and data systems.
    3. All program data are submitted to local, state, regional and
       federal agencies in a confidential and secure manner.
    4. Employees are trained regarding confidentiality, including those
       who handle patient information and clinical records, as well as
       those handling data.
    5. All employees have signed confidentiality agreements.

   Table of Contents

   Protecting People from Disease

   Standards for Communicable Diseases and Other Health Risks

   Standard 1

   A surveillance and reporting system is maintained to identify emerging
   health threats.

   Local measures:
    1. Information is provided on how to contact the LHJ to report a
       public health concern 24 hours per day. Law enforcement has current
       local and state 24-hour emergency contact lists.
    2. Health care providers and labs know which diseases require
       reporting, have timeframes, and have 24-hour local contact
       information. There is a process for identifying new providers in
       the community and engaging them in the reporting process.
    3. The local BOH receives an annual report, one element of which
       summarizes communicable disease surveillance activity.
    4. Written protocols are maintained for receiving and managing
       information on notifiable conditions. The protocols include
       role-specific steps to take when receiving information as well as
       guidance on providing information to the public.
    5. Communicable disease key indicators and implications for
       investigation, intervention or education efforts are evaluated
       annually.
    6. A communicable disease tracking system is used which documents the
       initial report, investigation, findings and subsequent reporting to
       state and federal agencies.
    7. Staff members receive training on communicable disease reporting,
       as evidenced by local protocols.

   State measures:
    1. Information is provided to the public on how to contact the DOH to
       report a public health concern 24 hours per day. Law enforcement
       has current state 24-hour emergency contact lists.
    2. Consultation and technical assistance are provided to LHJs on
       surveillance and reporting, as documented by case summaries or
       reports. Laboratories and health care providers, including new
       licensees, are provided with information on disease reporting
       requirements, timeframes, and a 24-hour DOH point of contact.
    3. Written procedures are maintained and disseminated for how to
       obtain state or federal consultation and technical assistance for
       LHJs. Assistance includes surveillance, reporting, disease
       intervention management during outbreaks or public health
       emergencies and accuracy and clarity of public health messages.
    4. Annual goals and objectives for communicable disease are a part of
       the DOH planning process. Key indicators and implications for
       investigation, intervention or education efforts are documented.
    5. A statewide database for reportable conditions is maintained;
       surveillance data are summarized and disseminated to LHJs at least
       annually. Uniform data standards and case definitions are updated
       and published at least annually.
    6. Staff members receive training on communicable disease reporting,
       as evidenced by protocols.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 2

   Response plans delineate roles and responsibilities in the event of
   communicable disease outbreaks and other health risks that threaten the
   health of people.

   Local measures:
    1. Phone numbers for weekday and after-hours emergency contacts are
       available to DOH and appropriate local agencies, such as schools
       and public safety.
    2. A primary contact person or designated phone line for the LHJ is
       clearly identified in communications to health providers and
       appropriate public safety officials for reporting purposes.
    3. Written policies or procedures delineate specific roles and
       responsibilities within agency divisions for local response and
       case investigations of disease outbreaks and other health risks.

   State measures:
    1. Phone numbers for after-hours contacts for all local and state
       public health jurisdictions are updated and disseminated statewide
       at least annually.
    2. Written policies or procedures delineate specific roles and
       responsibilities for state response to disease outbreaks or public
       health emergencies. There is a formal description of the roles and
       relationship between communicable disease, environmental health and
       program administration. Variations from overall process are
       identified in disease-specific protocols.
    3. Written procedures describe how expanded lab capacity is made
       readily available when needed for outbreak response, and there is a
       current list of labs having the capacity to analyze specimens.
    4. DOH staff members receive training on the policies and procedures
       regarding roles and responsibilities for response to public health
       threats, as evidenced by protocols.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 3

   Communicable disease investigation and control procedures are in place
   and actions documented.

   Local measures:
    1. Lists of private and public sources for referral to treatment are
       accessible to LHJ staff.
    2. Information is given to local providers through public health
       alerts and newsletters about managing reportable conditions.
    3. Communicable disease protocols require that investigations begin
       within 1 working day, unless a disease-specific protocol defines an
       alternate time frame. Disease-specific protocols identify
       information about the disease, case investigation steps, reporting
       requirements, contact and clinical management (including referral
       to care), use of emergency biologics and the process for exercising
       legal authority for disease control (including non-voluntary
       isolation). Documentation demonstrates staff member actions are in
       compliance with protocols and state statutes.
    4. An annual evaluation of a sample of communicable disease
       investigations is done to monitor timeliness and compliance with
       disease specific protocols.
    5. LHJs identify key performance measures for communicable disease
       investigation and enforcement actions.
    6. Staff members conducting disease investigations have appropriate
       skills and training as evidenced in job descriptions and resumes.

   State measures:
    1. Consultation and staff time are provided to LHJs for local support
       of disease intervention management during outbreaks or public
       health emergencies, as documented by case write-ups. Recent
       research findings relating to the most effective population-based
       methods of disease prevention and control are provided to LHJs.
       Labs are provided written protocols for the handling, storage, and
       transportation of specimens.
    2. DOH leads statewide development and use of a standardized set of
       written protocols for communicable disease investigation and
       control, including templates for documentation. Disease-specific
       protocols identify information about the disease, case
       investigation steps, reporting requirements, contact and clinical
       management (including referral to care), use of emergency biologics
       and the process for exercising legal authority for disease control
       (including non-voluntary isolation). Documentation demonstrates
       staff member actions are in compliance with protocols and state
       statutes.
    3. An annual evaluation of a sample of state communicable disease
       investigations and consultations is done to monitor timeliness and
       compliance with disease specific protocols.
    4. DOH identifies key performance measures for communicable disease
       investigations and consultation.
    5. Staff members conducting disease investigations have appropriate
       skills and training as evidenced in job descriptions and resumes.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 4

   Urgent public health messages are communicated quickly and clearly and
   actions are documented.

   Local measures:
    1. Information is provided through public health alerts to key
       stakeholders and press releases to the media.
    2. A current contact list of media and providers is maintained and
       updated at least annually. This list is in the communicable disease
       manual and at other appropriate departmental locations.
    3. Roles are identified for working with the news media. Policies
       identify the timeframes for communications and the expectations for
       all staff regarding information sharing and response to questions,
       as well as the steps for creating and distributing clear and
       accurate public health alerts and media releases.
    4. Staff who have lead roles in communicating urgent messages have
       been trained in risk communication.

   State measures:
    1. A communication system is maintained for rapid dissemination of
       urgent public health messages to the media and other state and
       national contacts.
    2. A communication system is maintained for rapid dissemination of
       urgent public health messages to LHJs, other agencies and health
       providers. Consultation is provided to LHJs to assure the accuracy
       and clarity of public health information associated with an
       outbreak or public health emergency, as documented by case
       write-ups. State-issued announcements are shared with LHJs in a
       timely manner.
    3. Roles are identified for working with the news media. Written
       policies identify the timeframes for communications and the
       expectations for all staff regarding information sharing and
       response to questions, as well as the steps for creating and
       distributing clear and accurate public health alerts and media
       releases.
    4. Communication issues identified in outbreak response evaluations
       are addressed in writing with future goals and objectives in the
       communicable disease quality improvement plan.
    5. Staff members with lead roles in communicating urgent messages have
       been trained in risk communication.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 5

   Communicable disease and other health risk responses are routinely
   evaluated for opportunities for improving public health system
   response.

   Local measures:
    1. An evaluation for each significant outbreak response documents what
       worked well and what process improvements are recommended for the
       future. Feedback is solicited from appropriate entities, such as
       hospitals and providers. Meetings are convened to assess how the
       outbreak was handled, identify issues and recommend changes in
       response procedures.
    2. Findings and policy recommendations for effective response efforts
       are included in reports to the BOH.
    3. Local protocols are revised based on local review findings and
       model materials disseminated by DOH.
    4. Issues identified in outbreak evaluations are addressed in future
       goals and objectives for communicable disease programs.
    5. Staff training in communicable disease and other health risk issues
       is documented.
    6. A debriefing process for review of response to public health
       threats or disease outbreaks is included in the quality improvement
       plan and includes consideration of surveillance, staff roles,
       investigation procedures and communication.

   State measures:
    1. Timely information about best practices in disease control is
       gathered and disseminated. Coordination is provided for a state and
       local debriefing to evaluate extraordinary disease events that
       required a multi-agency response; a written summary of evaluation
       findings and recommendations is disseminated statewide.
    2. Model plans, protocols and evaluation templates for response to
       disease outbreaks or public health emergencies are developed and
       disseminated to LHJs.
    3. Model materials are revised based on evaluation findings, including
       review of outbreaks.
    4. Response issues identified in outbreak evaluations are addressed in
       future goals and objectives for communicable disease programs.
    5. Staff members are trained in surveillance, outbreak response and
       communicable disease control and are provided with standardized
       tools.
    6. A debriefing process for review of response to public health
       threats or disease outbreaks is included in the quality improvement
       plan and includes consideration of surveillance, staff roles,
       investigation procedures and communication.

   Table of Contents

   Assuring a Safe, Healthy Environment for People

   Standards for Environmental Health

   Standard 1

   Environmental health education is a planned component of public health
   programs.

   Local measures:
    1. Information is available about environmental health educational
       programs through brochures, flyers, newsletters, websites or other
       mechanisms.
    2. There are documented processes for involving community members and
       stakeholders in addressing environmental health issues, including
       education and the provision of technical assistance.
    3. A plan for environmental health education exists and includes
       goals, objectives and learning outcomes.
    4. The environmental health education plan identifies performance
       measures for education programs. There is an evaluation process for
       health education offerings that is used to revise curricula.
    5. Staff members conducting environmental health education have
       appropriate skills and training.

   State measures:
    1. Information is provided to the public about the availability of
       state level environmental health educational programs through
       contact information on brochures, flyers, newsletters, websites and
       other mechanisms.
    2. There are documented processes for involving stakeholders in
       addressing environmental health issues including education and the
       provision of technical assistance.
    3. A plan for environmental health education exists, with goals,
       objectives and learning outcomes. There is an evaluation process
       for health education offerings that is used to revise curricula.
    4. Environmental health education services are provided in conformance
       with the statewide plan.
    5. The environmental health education plan identifies performance
       measures for education programs that are monitored and analyzed on
       a routine basis.
    6. Staff members conducting environmental health education have
       appropriate health education skills and training as evidenced by
       job descriptions, resumes or training documentation.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 2

   Services are available throughout the state to respond to environmental
   events or natural disasters that threaten the publics health.

   Local measures:
    1. Information is provided to the public on how to report
       environmental health threats or public health emergencies, 24 hours
       a day; this includes a phone number.
    2. Appropriate stakeholders are engaged in developing emergency
       response plans. Following an emergency response to environmental
       health problem or natural disaster, stakeholders are convened to
       review how the situation was handled, and this debriefing is
       documented with a written summary of findings and recommendations.
    3. Procedures are in place to monitor access to services and to
       evaluate the effectiveness of emergency response plans. Findings
       and recommendations for emergency response policies are included in
       reports to the BOH.
    4. There is a plan that describes LHJ roles and responsibilities for
       environmental events or natural disasters that threaten the health
       of the people. There is a clear link between this plan and other
       local emergency response plans.
    5. Key staff members are trained in risk communication and in use of
       the LHJ emergency response plan.

   State measures:
    1. Information is provided to the public on how to report
       environmental health threats or public health emergencies, 24 hours
       a day; this includes a phone number.
    2. Consultation and technical assistance are provided to LHJs on
       emergency preparedness, as documented by case write-ups or logs.
       Following an emergency response to environmental health problem or
       natural disaster, LHJs and other agencies are convened to review
       how the situation was handled. This debriefing is documented with a
       written summary of findings and recommendations.
    3. Written procedures are maintained and disseminated for how to
       obtain consultation and technical assistance regarding emergency
       preparedness. Procedures are in place to monitor access to services
       and to evaluate the effectiveness of emergency response plans.
       Policies are revised based on event debriefing findings and
       recommendations.
    4. There is a plan that describes DOH internal roles and
       responsibilities for environmental events or natural disasters that
       threaten the health of the people. There is a clear link between
       this plan and other state and local emergency response plans.
    5. All DOH program staff are trained in risk communication and the DOH
       emergency response plan, as evidenced by training documentation.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 3

   Both environmental health risks and environmental health illnesses are
   tracked, recorded and reported.

   Local measures:
    1. Environmental health data is available for community groups and
       other local agencies to review.
    2. A surveillance system is in place to record and report key
       indicators of environmental health risks and related illnesses.
       Information is tracked over time to monitor trends. A system is in
       place to assure that data is shared routinely with local, state and
       regional agencies.
    3. A quality improvement plan includes consideration of environmental
       health information and trends, findings from public input,
       evaluation of health education offerings and information from
       compliance activity.

   State measures:
    1. Coordination is provided in development of data standards for
       environmental health indicators. Information based on the
       surveillance system is developed and provided to LHJs and other
       state stakeholders.
    2. A statewide surveillance system is in place to receive, record and
       report key indicators for environmental health risks and related
       illnesses. Results are tracked and trended over time and reported
       regularly. A system is in place to assure that data is transferred
       routinely to local, state and regional agencies.
    3. A quality improvement plan includes consideration of analysis of
       environmental health information and trends, findings from
       debriefings, evaluation of health education offerings and
       information from compliance activity.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 4

   Compliance with public health regulations is sought through enforcement
   actions.

   Local measures:
    1. Written policies, local ordinances, laws and administrative codes
       are accessible to the public.
    2. Compliance procedures are written for all areas of environmental
       health activity. The procedures specify the documentation
       requirements associated with enforcement action. Documentation
       demonstrates that environmental health work conforms with policies,
       local ordinances and state statutes.
    3. There is a documented process for periodic review of enforcement
       actions.
    4. An environmental health tracking system enables documentation of
       the initial report, investigation, findings, enforcement and
       subsequent reporting to other agencies as required.
    5. Environmental health staff members are trained on compliance
       procedures, as evidenced by training documentation.

   State measures:
    1. Written policies, local ordinances, laws and administrative codes
       are accessible to the public.
    2. Information about best practices in environmental health compliance
       activity is gathered and disseminated, including form templates,
       time frames, interagency coordination steps, hearing procedures,
       citation issuance and documentation requirements.
    3. Compliance procedures are written for all areas of environmental
       health activity carried out by DOH. Documentation demonstrates that
       environmental health work conforms with policies, local ordinances
       and state statutes.
    4. There is a documented process for periodic review of enforcement
       actions.
    5. An environmental health tracking system enables documentation of
       the initial report, investigation, findings, enforcement and
       subsequent reporting to other agencies as required.
    6. Environmental health staff members are trained on compliance
       procedures, as evidenced by training documentation.

   Table of Contents

   Prevention is Best: Promoting Healthy Living

   Standards for Prevention and Community Health Promotion

   Standard 1

   Policies are adopted that support prevention priorities and that
   reflect consideration of scientifically-based public health literature.

   Local measures:
    1. Prevention and health promotion priorities are selected with
       involvement from the BOH, community groups and other organizations
       interested in the publics health.
    2. Prevention and health promotion priorities are adopted by the BOH,
       based on assessment information, local issues, funding
       availability, program evaluation and experience in service
       delivery, including information on best practices or scientific
       findings.
    3. Prevention and health promotion priorities are reflected in the
       goals, objectives and performance measures of the LHJs annual plan.
       Data from program evaluation and key indictors is used to develop
       strategies.

   State measures:
    1. Reports about new or emerging issues that contribute to health
       policy choices are routinely developed and disseminated. Reports
       include information about best practices in prevention and health
       promotion programs.
    2. Consultation and technical assistance is available to assist LHJs
       in proposing and developing prevention and health promotion
       policies and initiatives. Written procedures are maintained and
       shared, describing how to obtain consultation and assistance
       regarding development, delivery or evaluation of prevention and
       health promotion initiatives.
    3. Priorities are set for prevention and health promotion services,
       and a statewide implementation plan is developed with goals,
       objectives and performance measures.
    4. The statewide plan is evaluated and revised regularly,
       incorporating information from health assessment data and program
       evaluation.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 2

   Active involvement of community members is sought in addressing
   prevention priorities.

   Local measures:
    1. The LHJ provides leadership in involving community members in
       considering assessment information to set prevention priorities.
    2. A broad range of community partners takes part in planning and
       implementing prevention and health promotion efforts to address
       selected priorities for prevention and health promotion.
    3. Staff members have training in community mobilization methods as
       evidenced by training documentation.

   State measures:
    1. The DOH provides leadership in involving stakeholders in
       considering assessment information to set prevention and health
       promotion priorities.
    2. A broad range of partners takes part in planning and implementing
       prevention and health promotion efforts to address selected
       priorities for prevention and health promotion.
    3. Information about community mobilization efforts for prevention
       priorities is collected and shared with LHJs and other
       stakeholders.
    4. The statewide plan for prevention and health promotion identifies
       efforts to link public and private partnerships into a network of
       prevention services.
    5. DOH staff members have training in community mobilization methods
       as evidenced by training documentation.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 3

   Access to high quality prevention services for individuals, families,
   and communities is encouraged and enhanced by disseminating information
   about available services and by engaging in and supporting
   collaborative partnerships.

     Prevention services may be focused on reaching individuals, families
     and communities. Examples of prevention services include chronic
     disease prevention, home visiting by public health nurses,
     immunization programs, efforts to reduce unintentional injuries and
     violence, including sexual assault.

   Local measures:
    1. Summary information is available to the public describing
       preventive services available in the community. This may be
       produced by a partner organization or the LHJ, and it may be
       produced in a paper or web-based format.
    2. Local prevention services are evaluated and a gap analysis that
       compares existing community prevention services to projected need
       for services is performed periodically and integrated into the
       priority setting process.
    3. Results of prevention program evaluation and analysis of service
       gaps are reported to local stakeholders and to peers in other
       communities.
    4. Staff have training in program evaluation methods as evidenced by
       training documentation.
    5. A quality improvement plan incorporates program evaluation
       findings, evaluation of community mobilization efforts, use of
       emerging literature and best practices and delivery of prevention
       and health promotion services.

   State measures:
    1. The DOH supports best use of available resources for prevention
       services through leadership, collaboration and communication with
       partners. Information about prevention and health promotion
       evaluation results is collected and shared statewide.
    2. Prevention programs, provided directly or by contract, are
       evaluated against performance measures and incorporate assessment
       information. In addition, a gap analysis that compares existing
       prevention services to projected need for services is performed
       periodically and integrated into the priority setting process.
    3. DOH staff members have training in program evaluation methods as
       evidenced by training documentation.
    4. A quality improvement plan incorporates program evaluation
       findings, evaluation of community mobilization efforts, use of
       emerging literature and best practices and delivery of prevention
       and health promotion services.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 4

   Prevention, early intervention and outreach services are provided
   directly or through contracts.

     Health promotion activities may be focused on the entire state or
     community or on groups within the community. Examples of health
     promotion activities include educational efforts aimed at increasing
     physical activity, reduction in tobacco use, improved dietary
     choices.

   Local measures:
    1. Prevention priorities adopted by the BOH are the basis for
       establishing and delivering prevention, early intervention and
       outreach services.
    2. Early intervention, outreach and health education materials address
       the diverse local populations and languages of the intended
       audience. Information about how to select appropriate materials is
       available and used by staff.
    3. Prevention programs collect and use information from outreach,
       screening, referrals, case management and follow-up for program
       improvement. Prevention programs, provided directly or by contract,
       are evaluated against performance measures and incorporate
       assessment information. The type and number of prevention services
       are included in program performance measures.
    4. Staff providing prevention, early intervention or outreach services
       have appropriate skills and training as evidenced by job
       descriptions, resumes or training documentation.

   State measures:
    1. Consultation and technical assistance on program implementation and
       evaluation of prevention services is provided for LHJs. There is a
       system to inform LHJs and other stakeholders about prevention
       funding opportunities.
    2. Outreach and other prevention interventions are reviewed for
       compliance with science, professional standards, and state and
       federal requirements. Consideration of professional requirements
       and competencies for effective prevention staff is included.
    3. Prevention services have performance measures that are tracked and
       analyzed, and recommendations are made for program improvements.
    4. Statewide templates for documentation and data collection are
       provided for LHJs and other contractors to support performance
       measurement.
    5. DOH staff members have training in prevention, early intervention
       or outreach services as evidenced by training documentation.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 5

   Health promotion activities are provided directly or through contracts.

   Local measures:
    1. Health promotion activities are provided directly by LHJs or by
       contractors and are intended to reach the entire population or
       at-risk populations in the community.
    2. Procedures describe an overall system to organize, develop,
       distribute, evaluate and update health promotion materials.
       Technical assistance is provided to community organizations,
       including "train the trainer" methods.
    3. Health promotion efforts have goals, objectives and performance
       measures. The number and type of health promotion activities are
       tracked and reported, including information on content, target
       audience, number of attendees. There is an evaluation process for
       health promotion efforts that is used to improve programs or revise
       curricula.
    4. Staff members have training in health promotion methods as
       evidenced by training documentation.

   State measures:
    1. Health promotion activities are provided directly by DOH or by
       contractors and are intended to reach the entire population or
       at-risk populations in the community.
    2. Literature reviews of health promotion effectiveness are conducted
       and disseminated. Consultation and technical assistance on health
       promotion implementation and evaluation is provided for LHJs. There
       is a system to inform LHJs and other stakeholders about health
       promotion funding opportunities.
    3. Health promotion activities are reviewed for compliance with
       science, professional standards, and state and federal
       requirements. Health promotion materials that are appropriate for
       statewide use and for key cultural or linguistic groups are made
       available to LHJs and other stakeholders through a system that
       organizes, develops, distributes, evaluates and updates the
       materials.
    4. Health promotion activities have goals, objectives and performance
       measures that are tracked and analyzed, and recommendations are
       made for program improvements. The number and type of health
       promotion activities are tracked and reported, including
       information on content, target audience, number of attendees. There
       is an evaluation process for health promotion efforts that is used
       to improve programs or revise curricula.
    5. DOH staff members have training in health promotion methods as
       evidenced by training documentation.

   Table of Contents

   Helping People Get the Services They Need

   Standards for Access to Critical Health Services

   Standard 1

   Information is collected and made available at both the state and local
   level to describe the local health system, including existing resources
   for public health protection, health care providers, facilities and
   support services.

   Local measures:
    1. Up-to-date information on local critical health services is
       available for use in building partnerships with community groups
       and stakeholders.
    2. LHJ staff and contractors have a resource list of local providers
       of critical health services for use in making client referrals.
    3. The list of critical health services is used along with assessment
       information to determine where detailed documentation of local
       capacity is needed.

   State measures:
    1. A list of critical health services is established and a core set of
       statewide access measures established. Information is collected on
       the core set of access measures, analyzed and reported to the LHJs
       and other agencies.
    2. Information is provided to LHJs and other agencies about
       availability of licensed health care providers, facilities and
       support services.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 2

   Available information is used to analyze trends which, over time,
   affect access to critical health services.

   Local measures:
    1. Data tracking and reporting systems include key measures of access.
       Periodic surveys are conducted regarding the availability of
       critical health services and barriers to access.
    2. Gaps in access to critical health services are identified using
       periodic survey data and other assessment information.
    3. The BOH receives summary information regarding access to critical
       health services at least annually.

   State measures:
    1. Consultation is provided to communities to help gather and analyze
       information about barriers to accessing critical health services.
    2. Written procedures are maintained and disseminated for how to
       obtain consultation and technical assistance for LHJs and other
       agencies in gathering and analyzing information regarding barriers
       to access.
    3. Gaps in access to critical health services are identified using
       periodic survey data and other assessment information.
    4. Periodic studies regarding workforce needs and the effect on
       critical health services are conducted, incorporated into the gap
       analysis and disseminated to LHJs and other agencies.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 3

   Plans to reduce specific gaps in access to critical health services are
   developed and implemented through collaborative efforts.

   Local measures:
    1. Community groups and stakeholders, including health care providers,
       are convened to address access to critical health services, set
       goals and take action, based on information about local resources
       and trends. This process may be led by the LHJ or it may be part of
       a separate community process sponsored by multiple partners,
       including the LHJ.
    2. Coordination of critical health service delivery among health
       providers is reflected in the local planning processes and in the
       implementation of access initiatives.
    3. Where specific initiatives are selected to improve access, there is
       analysis of local data and established goals, objectives and
       performance measures.

   State measures:
    1. Information about access barriers affecting groups within the state
       is shared with other state agencies that pay for or support
       critical health services.
    2. State-initiated contracts and program evaluations include
       performance measures that demonstrate coordination of critical
       health services delivery among health providers.
    3. Protocols are developed for implementation by state agencies, LHJs
       and other local providers to maximize enrollment and participation
       in available insurance coverage.
    4. Where specific initiatives are selected to improve access, there is
       analysis of local data and established goals, objectives and
       performance measures.

   Table of Contents

   Standard 4

   Quality measures that address the capacity, process for delivery and
   outcomes of critical health care services are established, monitored
   and reported.

   Local measures:
    1. Clinical services provided directly by the LHJ or by contract have
       a written quality improvement plan including specific quality-based
       performance or outcome measures. Performance measures are tracked
       and reported.
    2. Staff members are trained in quality improvement methods as
       evidenced by training documentation.

   State measures:
    1. Information about best practices in delivery of critical health
       services is gathered and disseminated. Summary information
       regarding delivery system changes is provided to LHJs and other
       agencies.
    2. Training on quality improvement methods is available and is
       incorporated into grant and program requirements.
    3. Regulatory programs and clinical services administered by DOH have
       a written quality improvement plan including specific quality-based
       performance
    4. or outcome measures.

   Table of Contents

   Menu of Critical Health Services

   This menu identifies health services and health conditions or risks for
   which appropriate services screening, education and counseling, or
   interventions are needed.

   General access to health services

     Ongoing primary care
     Emergency medical services and care
     Consultative specialty care
     Home care services
     Long-term care

   Health risk behaviors

     Tobacco use
     Dietary behaviors
     Physical activity and fitness
     Injury and violence prevention (bike safety, motor vehicle safety,
     firearm safety, poison prevention, abuse prevention)
     Responsible sexual behavior

   Communicable and infectious diseases

     Immunizations for vaccine-preventable diseases
     HIV/AIDS
     Tuberculosis
     Other communicable diseases

   Pregnancy and maternal, infant, and child health and development

     Family planning
     Prenatal care
     Women, Infants and Children (WIC) services
     Well child care

   Behavioral health and mental health services

     Substance abuse prevention and treatment
     Depression
     Suicide/crisis intervention
     Other serious mental illness

   Cancel services

     Cancer-specific screening (i.e., breast, cervical, colorectal) and
     surveillance
     Specific cancer treatment

   Chronic conditions and disease management

     Diabetes
     Asthma
     Hypertension
     Cardiovascular disease
     Respiratory diseases (other than asthma)
     Arthritis, osteoporosis, chronic back conditions
     Renal disease

   Oral health

     Dental care services
     Water fluoridation

   Table of Contents



          ____________________________________________________________

      DOH Home | Access Washington | Privacy Notice | Disclaimer/Copyright
                                   Information

     (Program Address)
     Washington State Department of Health
     1112 SE Quince Street, P.O. Box 47890,
     Olympia, Washington, 98504-7890

     Last Update : 06/21/01 09:52 AM
     Send inquires about DOH and its programs to the Health Consumer
     Assistance Office
     Comments or questions regarding this web site? Send mail to the SubSite
     Developer .
