http://www.ia.ita.doc.gov/intro/

             [us5uc1.gif] ADDITIONAL TRADE REMEDY RESOURCES:
                          - Economic Development Administration
                          - Department of Labor

                   An Introduction to U.S. Trade Remedies

   Unfair foreign pricing and government subsidies distort the free flow
   of goods and adversely affect American business in the global
   marketplace. Import Administration, within the International Trade
   Administration of the Department of Commerce, enforces laws and
   agreements to protect U.S. businesses from unfair competition within
   the U.S. resulting from unfair pricing by foreign companies and unfair
   subsidies to foreign companies by their governments.

                              What is Dumping?

   Dumping occurs when a foreign producer sells a product in the United
   States at a price that is below that producer's sales price in the
   country of origin ("home market"), or at a price that is lower than the
   cost of production. The difference between the price (or cost) in the
   foreign market and the price in the U.S. market is called the dumping
   margin. Unless the conduct falls within the legal definition of dumping
   as specified in U.S. law, a foreign producer selling imports at prices
   below those of American products is not necessarily dumping.

                     What is a Countervailable Subsidy?

   Foreign governments subsidize industries when they provide financial
   assistance to benefit the production, manufacture or exportation of
   goods. Subsidies can take many forms, such as direct cash payments,
   credits against taxes, and loans at terms that do not reflect market
   conditions. The statute and regulations establish standards for
   determining when an unfair subsidy has been conferred. The amount of
   subsidies the foreign producer receives from the government is the
   basis for the subsidy rate by which the subsidy is offset, or
   "countervailed," through higher import duties.

                  How is Dumping or Subsidization Remedied?

   If a U.S. industry believes that it is being injured by unfair
   competition through dumping or subsidization of a foreign product, it
   may request the imposition of antidumping or countervailing duties by
   filing a petition with both Import Administration and the United States
   International Trade Commission. Import Administration investigates
   foreign producers and governments to determine whether dumping or
   subsidization has occurred and calculates the amount of dumping or
   subsidies.

           What is the role of the International Trade Commission

   The International Trade Commission determines whether the domestic
   industry is suffering material injury as a result of the imports of the
   dumped or subsidized products. The International Trade Commission
   considers all relevant economic factors, including the domestic
   industry's output, sales, market share, employment, and profits. For
   further information on the International Trade Commission's injury
   investigation, see http://www.usitc.gov. Both the International Trade
   Commission and Import Administration must make affirmative preliminary
   determinations for an investigation to go forward.

   What relief is the end result of an Antidumping or Countervailing Duty
                               Investigation?

   If both Commerce and the International Trade Commission make
   affirmative findings of dumping and injury, Commerce instructs the U.S.
   Customs Service to assess duties against imports of that product into
   the United States. The duties are assessed as a percentage of the value
   of the imports and are equivalent to the dumping and subsidy margins,
   described above. For example, if Commerce finds a dumping margin of
   35%, the U.S. Customs Service will collect a 35% duty on the product at
   the time of importation into the United States in order to offset the
   amount of dumping. Information on the U.S. Customs Service may be found
   at http://www.customs.ustreas.gov.

   How long does it take for Antidumping or Countervailing Duty Orders to
                                 be issued?

   If both the International Trade Commission and Import Administration
   make affirmative preliminary determinations (within 190 days of
   initiation of the antidumping investigation, or 130 days for
   countervailing duty investigation) importers are required to post a
   bond or cash to cover an estimated amount for the duties which would be
   collected in the event that an AD or CVD order is issued upon the
   completion of the investigations. Typically, the final phases of the
   investigations by Import Administration and the International Trade
   Commission are completed within 12 to 18 months of initiation.

    What are the requirements for filing an Antidumping or Countervailing
                               Duty Petition?

   Petitions may be filed by a domestic interested party, including a
   manufacturer or a union within the domestic industry producing the
   product which competes with the imports to be investigated. To ensure
   that there is sufficient support by domestic industry for the
   investigation, the law requires that the petitioners must represent at
   least 25% of domestic production. The statute requires the petition to
   contain certain information, including data about conditions of the
   U.S. market and the domestic industry, as well as evidence of dumping
   or unfair subsidization.

   Antidumping and countervailing duty trade remedies have been
   successfully pursued by a variety of domestic industries, including
   producers of steel, industrial equipment, computer chips, agricultural
   products, textiles, chemicals, and consumer products. Both the Import
   Administration and the International Trade Commission have staff
   available to assist domestic industries in deciding whether there is
   sufficient evidence to file a petition for antidumping or
   countervailing duty investigations. The staff may also assist eligible
   small businesses with the filing process.

                How can I learn more about filing a petition?

   Contact the Import Administration, Office of Policy at (202) 482-4412
   or by e-mail at Petitioners_Support@ita.doc.gov Additional information
   can also be found at the Import Administration web site: ia.ita.doc.gov

   Note: This document is for general information purposes only. When
   interpreting and applying the law, readers should refer to the Tariff
   Act of 1930, as amended, (19 U.S.C. 1671-1671h, 1673-1673h) and the
   related regulations in Title 19 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
