http://www.msnb.uscourts.gov/pdfs/bankfee.pdf

   eff. 7/1/2001 Bankruptcy Court Miscellaneous Fee Schedule* Following
   are fees to be charged for services to be performed by clerks of the
   bankruptcy courts. No fees are to be charged for services rendered on
   behalf of the United States, with the exception of those specifically
   prescribed in items 1, 3, and 5, or to bankruptcy administrators
   appointed under Public Law No. 99-554, § 302(d)(3)(I). No fees under
   this schedule shall be charged to federal agencies or programs which
   are funded from judiciary appropriations, including, but not limited
   to, agencies, organizations, and individuals providing services
   authorized by the Criminal Justice Act, 18 U.S.C. § 3006A. (1) For
   reproducing any record or paper, $.50 per page. This fee shall apply to
   paper copies made from either: (1) original documents; or (2)
   microfiche or microfilm reproductions of the original records. This fee
   shall apply to services rendered on behalf of the United States if the
   record or paper requested is available through electronic access. (2)
   For certification of any document or paper, whether the certification
   is made directly on the document or by separate instrument, $7. For
   exemplification of any document or paper, twice the amount of the
   charge for certification. (3) For reproduction of recordings of
   proceedings, regardless of the medium, $20, including the cost of
   materials. This fee shall apply to services rendered on behalf of the
   United States, if the reproduction of the recording is available
   electronically. (4) For amendments to a debtor's schedules of
   creditors, lists of creditors, matrix, or mailing lists, $20 for each
   amendment, provided the bankruptcy judge may, for good cause, waive the
   charge in any case. (5) For every search of the records of the
   bankruptcy court conducted by the clerk of the bankruptcy court or a
   deputy clerk, $20 per name or item searched. This fee shall apply to
   services rendered on behalf of the United States if the information
   requested is available through electronic access. (6) For filing a
   complaint, a fee shall be collected in the same amount as the filing
   fee prescribed in 28 U.S.C. § 1914(a) for instituting any civil action
   other than a writ of habeas corpus. If the United States, other than a
   United States trustee acting as a trustee in a case under title 11, or
   a debtor is the plaintiff, no fee is required. If a trustee or debtor
   in possession is the plaintiff, the fee should be payable only from the
   estate and to the extent there is any estate realized. If a child
   support creditor *Issued in accordance with 28 U.S.C. § 1930(b). or its
   representative is the plaintiff, and if such plaintiff files the form
   required by § 304(g) of the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994, no fee is
   required. (7) For filing or indexing any document not in a case or
   proceeding for which a filing fee has been paid, $30. (8) In all cases
   filed under title 11, the clerk shall collect from the debtor or the
   petitioner a miscellaneous administrative fee of $30. This fee may be
   paid in installments in the same manner that the filing fee may be paid
   in installments, consistent with the procedure set forth in Federal
   Rule of Bankruptcy Procedure 1006. (9) Upon the filing of a petition
   under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, the petitioner shall pay $15 to
   the clerk of the court for payment to trustees serving in cases as
   provided in 11 U.S.C. § 330(b)(2). An application to pay the fee in
   installments may be filed in the manner set forth in Federal Rule of
   Bankruptcy Procedure 1006(b). (10) Upon the filing of a motion to
   convert a case to chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code, the movant shall
   pay $15 to the clerk of court for payment to trustees serving in cases
   as provided in 11 U.S.C. § 330(b)(2). Upon the filing of a notice of
   conversion pursuant to section 1208(a) or section 1307(a) of the Code,
   $15 shall be paid to the clerk of the court for payment to trustees
   serving in cases as provided in 11 U.S.C. § 330(b)(2). If the trustee
   serving in the case before the conversion is the movant, the fee shall
   be payable only from the estate that exists prior to conversion. (11)
   For filing a motion to reopen a Bankruptcy Code case, a fee shall be
   collected in the same amount as the filing fee prescribed by 28 U.S.C.
   § 1930(a) for commencing a new case on the date of reopening, unless
   the reopening is to correct an administrative error or for actions
   related to the debtor's discharge. The court may waive this fee under
   appropriate circumstances or may defer payment of the fee from trustees
   pending discovery of additional assets. (12) For each microfiche sheet
   of film or microfilm jacket copy of any court record, where available,
   $4. (13) For retrieval of a record from a Federal Records Center,
   National Archives, or other storage location removed from the place of
   business of the court, $35. (14) For a check paid into the court which
   is returned for lack of funds, $35. (15) For docketing a proceeding on
   appeal or review from a final judgment of a bankruptcy judge pursuant
   to 28 U.S.C. § 158(a) and (b), the fee shall be the same amount as the
   fee for docketing a case on appeal or review to the appellate court as
   required by Item 1 of the Courts of Appeals Miscellaneous Fee Schedule.
   A separate fee shall be paid by each party filing a notice of appeal in
   the bankruptcy court, but parties filing a joint notice of appeal in
   the bankruptcy court are required to pay only one fee. (16) For filing
   a petition ancillary to a foreign proceeding under 11 U.S.C. § 304, the
   fee shall be the same amount as the fee for a case commenced under
   chapter 11 of title 11 as required by 28 U.S.C. § 1930(a)(3). (17) The
   court may charge and collect fees commensurate with the cost of
   providing copies of the local rules of court. The court may also
   distribute copies of the local rules without charge. (18) The clerk
   shall assess a charge for the handling of registry funds deposited with
   the court, to be assessed from interest earnings and in accordance with
   the detailed fee schedule issued by the Director of the Administrative
   Office of the United States Courts. (19) When a joint case filed under
   § 302 of title 11 is divided into two separate cases at the request of
   the debtor(s), a fee shall be charged equal to one-half the current
   filing fee for the chapter under which the joint case was commenced.
   (20) For filing a motion to terminate, annul, modify, or condition the
   automatic stay provided under § 362(a) of title 11, a motion to compel
   abandonment of property of the estate pursuant to Rule 6007(b) of the
   Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure, or a motion to withdraw the
   reference of a case or proceeding under 28 U.S.C. § 157(d), a fee shall
   be collected in the amount of one-half the filing fee prescribed in 28
   U.S.C. § 1914(a) for instituting any civil action other than a writ of
   habeas corpus. If a child support creditor or its representative is the
   movant, and if such movant files the form required by § 304(g) of the
   Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994, no fee is required. (21) For docketing a
   cross appeal from a bankruptcy court determination, the fee shall be
   the same amount as the fee for docketing a case on appeal or review to
   the appellate court as required by Item 1 of the Courts of Appeals
   Miscellaneous Fee Schedule.
