http://lep694.gsfc.nasa.gov/obsrep2000.pdf

   1 NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center Laboratory for Extraterrestrial
   Physics Greenbelt, Maryland 20771 S0002-7537 93 05831-7 The NASA
   Goddard Space Flight Center GSFC Labo- tems is also a member of the
   Laboratory senior staff. The ratory for Extraterrestrial Physics LEP
   performs experi- civil service scientific staff consists of Dr. Mario
   Acun a, Dr. mental and theoretical research on the heliosphere, the
   inter- John Allen, Dr. Robert Benson, Dr. Gordon Bjoraker, Dr. stellar
   medium, and the magnetospheres and upper John Brasunas, Dr. David Buhl,
   Dr. Leonard Burlaga, Dr. atmospheres of the planets, including Earth.
   Gordon Chin, Dr. Regina Cody, Dr. Michael Collier, Dr. LEP space
   scientists investigate the structure and dynam- John Connerney, Dr.
   Michael Desch, Mr. Fred Espenak, Dr. ics of the magnetospheres of the
   planets including Earth. Joseph Fainberg, Dr. Donald Fairfield, Dr.
   William Farrell, Their research programs encompass the magnetic fields
   in- Dr. Richard Fitzenreiter, Dr. Michael Flasar, Dr. Barbara trinsic
   to many planetary bodies as well as their charged- Giles, Dr. David
   Glenar, Dr. Melvyn Goldstein, Dr. Joseph particle environments and
   plasma-wave emissions. The LEP Grebowsky, Dr. Michael Hesse, Dr. Robert
   Hoffman, Dr. also conducts research into the nature of planetary iono-
   Donald Jennings, Mr. Michael Kaiser, Dr. John Keller, Dr. spheres and
   their coupling to both the upper atmospheres and Alexander Klimas, Dr.
   Theodor Kostiuk, Dr. Brook Lakew, their magnetospheres. Finally, the
   LEP carries out a broad- Dr. Ronald Lepping, Dr. Robert MacDowall, Dr.
   William based research program in heliospheric physics covering the
   Maguire, Dr. Marla Moore, Dr. David Nava, Dr. Larry Nit- origins of the
   solar wind, its propagation outward through tler, Dr. Walter Payne, Dr.
   John Pearl, Dr. Robert Pfaff, Dr. the solar system all the way to its
   termination where it en- Dennis Reuter, Dr. D. Aaron Roberts, Dr. Paul
   Romani, Dr. counters the local interstellar medium. Special emphasis is
   Robert Samuelson, Dr. Edward Sittler, Dr. Michael Smith, placed on the
   study of solar coronal mass ejections CME's , Dr. David Stern, Dr. Adam
   Szabo, Dr. Jacob Trombka, Dr. shock waves, and the structure and
   properties of the fast and Adolfo Figueroa-Vin as, and Dr. Peter
   Wasilewski. The fol- slow solar wind. lowing are National Research
   Council Associates: Dr. Aki- LEP planetary scientists study the
   chemistry and physics masa Ieda, Dr. Robert Boyle, Dr. Dana Hurley
   Crider, Dr. of planetary stratospheres and tropospheres and of solar
   sys- Steven Cummer, Dr. Aharon Eviatar, Dr. Robert Glinski, Dr. tem
   bodies including meteorites, asteroids, comets, and plan- Natchimuthuk
   Gopalswamy, Dr. Cedric Goukenleuque, Dr. ets. The LEP conducts a
   focused program in astronomy, par- Hugh Hill, Dr. Kristi Keller, Dr.
   Gunther Kletetschka, Dr. ticularly in the infrared and in short as well
   as very long Patrick Michael, Dr. Lutz Rasta¨tter, Dr. Frank
   Schmu¨lling, radio wavelengths. We also perform an extensive program of
   Dr. Kristine Sigsbee, Dr. Peyton Thorn, Dr. Vadim Uritsky, laboratory
   research, including spectroscopy and physical and Dr. Oleg Vaisberg.
   The following scientists work at LEP chemistry related to astronomical
   objects. as either contractors to GSFC or as long-term visiting fac-
   The Laboratory proposes, develops, fabricates, and inte- ulty:
   Raytheon/ITSS Dr. Ashraf Ali, Dr. Daniel Berdichev- grates experiments
   on Earth-orbiting, planetary, and helio- sky, Dr. Scott Boardsen, Dr.
   Rainer Fettig, Dr. Henry spheric spacecraft to measure the
   characteristics of planetary Freudenreich, Dr. Georgi Georgiev, Dr.
   Roger Hess, Dr. atmospheres and magnetic fields, and electromagnetic
   fields Shrikanth Kanekal, Dr. Masha Kuznetsova, Dr. Nitya Nath, and
   plasmas in space. We design and develop spectrometric Mr. George
   McCabe, Dr. Vladimir Osherovich, Dr. Mauricio instrumentation for
   continuum and spectral line observations Peredo, Dr. Michael Reiner,
   Dr. Pamela Solomon, Dr. Adi- in the x-ray, gamma-ray, infrared, and
   radio regimes; these narayan Sundaram, and Dr. Nikolai Tsyganenko;
   Universi- are flown on spacecraft to study the interplanetary medium,
   ties Space Research Association USRA Dr. Mei-Ching asteroids, comets,
   and planets. Suborbital sounding rockets Fok, Dr. Venku Jayanti, Dr.
   Kathleen McClernan, Dr. Dimi- and ground-based observing platforms form
   an integral part tris Vassiliadis, and Dr. Hung Kit Wong; Applied
   Research of these research activities. Corporation Dr. Sanjoy Ghosh,
   and Dr. Edouard Siregar; This report covers the period from
   approximately October Computer Sciences Corporation CSC Dr. Larry
   Evans; 1999 through September 2000. Catholic University of America Dr.
   Dennis Bogan, Dr. Pamela Clark, Dr. Tamara Dickinson, Dr. Michael
   DiSanti, 1. PERSONNEL Dr. Frank Ferguson, Dr. Fred Nesbitt, Dr. Neil
   Dello Russo, Dr. Richard Vondrak continues as Chief of the LEP. Mr. and
   Dr. Richard Starr; Space Science Applications, Inc. Franklin Ottens is
   Assistant Chief. The Branch Heads are Dr. SSAI Dr. Richard Achterberg,
   and Dr. Ronald Carlson; Joseph Nuth Astrochemistry ; Dr. Thomas Moore
   Inter- University of Maryland Baltimore County UMBC Dr. planetary
   Physics ; Dr. Drake Deming Planetary Systems ; David Steyert; Georgia
   Southern University Dr. Robert Dr. Steven Curtis Planetary
   Magnetospheres , and Dr. Nelson; University of Maryland, College Park
   Dr. Dennis James Slavin Electrodynamics . The Laboratory Senior Sci-
   Chornay, Ms. Kelly Fast, Dr. Thejappa Golla, and Mr. Virgil entists are
   Drs. Richard Goldberg, John Hillman, Michael Kunde; Charles County
   Community College Dr. George Mumma, Keith Ogilvie, Louis Stief, and
   Robert Stone. Mr. Kraus; IONA College Dr. Robert Novak; Cornell Univer-
   William Mish ISTP Deputy Project Scientist for Data Sys- sity Dr.
   Barney Conrath and Dr. Paul Schinder; Challenger 2 ANNUAL REPORT Center
   Dr. Jeff Goldstein, Dr. Tilak Hewagama, and Dr. Synchrotron Light
   Source at Brookhaven National Labora- Timothy Livengood; NOMAD Research
   Dr. Dean Pesnell; tory. The appearance energy of BrO from the
   dissociative National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST Dr.
   ionization of OBrO was determined from the measured Vladimir Orkin;
   John's Hopkins Applied Physics Labora- threshold at 98.65 0.23 nm to be
   AE BrO ,OBrO tory APL/IPA Dr. Nicola Fox; Eckerd College Dr. Regi-
   12.57 0.03 eV. Taking known thermodynamic quanti- nald Hudson;
   University of Colorado Mr. Jeremy Richard- ties this result yields fH°0
   173 4 kJ mol 1, the first son; University of Oslo Dr. Nikolai Ostgaard;
   University experimental measurement of the heat of formation of OBrO.
   of Bergen Dr. Johan Stadsnes. In addition, our computations yield a
   theoretical value of 164 A large and very capable staff of engineers,
   technicians, 8 kJ mol 1 which is in good agreement with the experi-
   secretaries, and computational personnel also support the mental
   result. These results will be useful to both modelers work of the LEP
   scientists. and kineticists when evaluating the viability of potential
   at- mospheric reactions involving this species. 2. ASTROCHEMISTRY
   Cosmic Ices. Infrared spectroscopy of cosmic-type ices exposed to both
   proton bombardment and to UV photolysis 2.1 Chemical Kinetics within
   the same experimental setup is now possible in the Outer Planet
   Hydrocarbon Chemistry. The reaction of D Cosmic Ice Laboratory at GSFC.
   This unique facility is used atoms with methyl radicals CH to examine a
   variety of physical-chemical and radiation- 3) is important in the
   chem- istry occurring in the thermosphere of Jupiter. In-situ mea-
   chemical processes in ices. Experiments lead to the forma- surements of
   the D/H ratio by the Galileo probe mass spec- tion of many complex
   organic molecules through processes trometer Mahaffy, Donahue, Atreya,
   Owen and Niemann, that are thought to represent those occurring on
   comets, in- 1998 have prompted modelers to explain the observations
   terstellar icy-grains or on the surfaces of icy satellites. 1 through
   calculations of the atomic D distribution using a 1-D The radiation
   chemistry of water-methanol ices near 16K photochemical diffusion model
   combined with a radiative was reinvestigated. R. Hudson Eckerd College
   and M. transfer model. The major reactions involved in the model Moore
   found no evidence for the formation of acetone pre- include those of H
   and D atoms with H, HD, H viously, a variety of authors hinted that
   acetone was present . 2 and CH3 Parkinson, Griffioen, McConnell,
   Jaffel, Vidal-Madjar, Ethylene glycol is identified in the ice and is
   also a residual Clarke and Gladstone, 1999 . F. Nesbitt, R. Thorn, W.
   Payne material left after most water is sublimed. 2 P. Gerkakines and
   L. Stief, in collaboration with D. Wardlaw Queen's NRC , M. Moore and
   R. Hudson Eckerd College have Univ., Kingston, Ontario , P. Seakins, S.
   Robertson, and M. compared the nature of products formed after proton
   irradia- Pilling all at Univ. of Leeds have, as reported previously,
   tion and UV photolysis of a variety of simple binary and a completed an
   experimental and theoretical study of the lim- few ternary mixtures.
   For H2O CO2 we showed that both iting high-pressure rate coefficient
   for the reaction H CH energy sources form carbonic acid, and CO with
   similar for- 3 M CH mation yields. An extension of this work is the
   direct com- 4 M. Since this reaction is far from the high- pressure
   limit under typical experimental conditions, the ap- parison of
   photolysis and irradiation of H2O CO2 CH3OH proach to this study was to
   measure the rate constant for the and H2O CO2 CH4 ices at 18K in the
   same laboratory isotopic variant D CH with ices created under the same
   conditions. Although the 3 CH3D* CH2D H which, with a small isotope
   correction, mimics the rate at the high- processing methods are not
   identical, there are many simi- pressure limit. It was clearly
   established that, at low pres- larities between the results of the
   experiments, i.e. similar sures, the initially formed methane complex
   CH products and yields. However, there are two major differ- 3D is not
   stabilized. Subsequently, these results alerted the modelers of ences:
   the formate ion is only observed for proton irradiated the Galileo
   observations to the fact that the reaction of D CH3OH containing ices,
   and 2 the rate of CO formation is with CH measured to be 2 to 4 times
   higher in UV-photolyzed ices. 3 is a rapid two-body reaction leading to
   CH2D and not a slow three-body reaction forming CH 3 R. Hudson and M.
   Moore reported on new experiments 3D. Our results on D CH3 turned out
   to be crucial for the modeling calcula- and interpretations concerning
   the ``XCN'' band detected in tions. some interstellar ice spectra. New
   laboratory spectra of UV- Stratospheric Chemistry. Halogen oxides are
   known to photolyzed and proton-irradiated ices were completed and play
   an important role in atmospheric chemistry, especially interpreted
   using the role of e and H scavengers to reveal in catalytic reaction
   cycles involved in stratospheric ozone the photo and radiation
   chemistries. The idea that XCN is the depletion. The role of bromine
   oxides has long been estab- cyanate ion is presented. An extension of
   this work leads to lished and recently the efficiency of bromine in
   this regard the prediction of the chemical precursors required for the
   has been estimated to be about 50 times larger than chlorine. synthesis
   of the ``OCN '' band. This is possible since most The recent detection
   of OBrO in the stratosphere has experiments have been performed along
   with appropriate prompted suggestions that this oxide may serve as a
   night- isotopic substitutions. 4 M. Moore, R. Hudson, and P. Ger- time
   reservoir for bromine. R. Thorn and L. Stief in collabo- akines have
   posted infrared date to the Cosmic-Ice Labora- ration with R. Klemm
   Brookhaven National Laboratory , tory web page
   www-691.gsfc.nasa.gov/cosmic_ices . Data and T. Buckley and R. Johnson
   both at NIST measured the serve as reference spectra of molecules in
   H2O-dominated heat of formation for OBrO using a discharge flow- ices
   at 15-20 K measured from 2.5 to 25 microns. photoionization mass
   spectrometer apparatus coupled to the Low-Temperature Thermodynamic
   Properties. In collabo- U-11 beam on the vacuum ultra-violet ring at
   the National ration with R. Nelson the vapor pressure of ethane has
   been NASA/GSFC LABORATORY FOR EXTRATERRESTRIAL PHYSICS 3 measured from
   95-k just above the triple point - to 72 K to magnetically enhanced
   coagulation. Experimental studies using the low-temperature vapor
   pressure system at GSFC. of the catalytic activity of our iron silicate
   condensates dem- New data were also acquired for propane from 250 to 80
   K onstrated that such materials are extremely efficient Fischer- to
   further refine the preliminary measurements for this mol- Tropsch type
   catalysts Ferrante, et al., 2000 and further ecule that were reported
   in a paper describing our apparatus. studies of both iron and magnesium
   silicates are in progress. Work has begun to develop the experimental
   protocols nec- Finally, our measurements of the temperature dependent
   essary to measure the thermodynamic properties of binary evolution of
   magnesium silicate smokes Hallenbeck et al., systems by concentrating
   initially on the nitrogen-methane. 2000 lead us to propose a new method
   by which the relative Energy Transfer. J. Allen in collaboration with
   P. Michael formation age of individual comets might be determined
   NAS/NRS Resident Research Associate has measured the based on the
   relative proportions of crystalline and amor-
   vibrational-to-translational V-T rate for the self-relaxation phous
   grains in their comae Nuth, Hill, and Kletetschka, of methane from 300
   to 90 K using the infrared non-resonant 2000 . The method could be put
   on a quantitative footing by photoacoustic spectrometer at GSFC.
   Accurate values for the dating returned crystalline silicate dust from
   several comets temperature dependence of this rate are required to
   correct and can be observationally tested by searching for the pre- for
   methane self-relaxation when measuring the V-T relax- dicted
   correlation between the ratio of the crystalline to ation of methane by
   other molecules in a gas mixture. Ex- amorphous dust fraction and the
   increasing fraction of vola- periments are under way to determine the
   temperature depen- tile organics versus CO in the comet as this ratio
   increases. dence of the V-T rate for the relaxation of methane by Older
   comets contain more amorphous dust and fewer com- nitrogen. plex
   organic molecules. Intracavity Laser Spectroscopy. J. Allen in
   collaboration For the first time it has been demonstrated that experi-
   with J. Keller, who recently transferred to the Astrochemis- mentally
   produced, amorphous iron silicate smokes act as try Branch have revived
   and upgraded the intracavity laser Fischer-Tropsch-Type catalysts to
   convert H2 and CO into spectrometer. Having completed several
   improvements, the simple hydrocarbons. R. Ferrante US Naval Academy and
   system is being readied to measure the temperature depen- M. Moore
   studied the catalysis for temperatures from 470- dence of overtone
   absorption by deuterium hydride HD . 670 K and reactant gas mixtures of
   H2 /CO with a ratio of 2-100. Maximum conversion rates of a few
   percentage points 2.2 Cosmic Grains were achieved over only a 3-h time
   period. Major products were methane, ethane, ethylene, carbon dioxide,
   and water. Nucleation, Growth and Metamorphism of Silicates in As-
   Products were identified by IR spectroscopy. trophysical Environments.
   We are conducting experimental studies to understand the nucleation of
   refractory vapors, the chemical speciation of the condensates and the
   change in the 3. PLANETARY AND COMETARY PHYSICS spectral properties of
   the dust as a function of thermal an- Laboratory Gas-Phase
   Spectroscopy. A significant effort nealing and hydration. Each of these
   three experimental tasks in the LEP is high-resolution laboratory
   infrared spectros- presents its own special challenges. We have
   recently com- copy of gaseous molecular species. The research by the
   LEP pleted studies of the nucleation of lithium vapors Ferguson
   spectroscopy group composed of D. Reuter, J. Sirota, J. Hill- and Nuth,
   2000 and have begun to study the nucleation of man, and D. Steyert is
   focused primarily on molecules of sodium. These studies have been
   carried out primarily to test planetary and astrophysical interest, and
   supports NASA the applicability of several different models currently
   used to flight missions in both these areas. The work also supports
   describe the nucleation of refractory vapors, but also because
   ground-based astronomy and terrestrial atmospheric studies. alkali
   metal clouds might be important opacity sources in the Particular
   emphasis is placed on obtaining reliable intensi- atmospheres of
   extrasolar planets orbiting close to their par- ties; self- and
   foreign-gas pressure broadening coefficients ent stars. We have
   published several papers on the speciation and line-mixing effects.
   There is a vigorous program to mea- of magnesium silicate, iron
   silicate, and magnesium-iron sili- sure Tunable Diode Laser TDL and
   Fourier Transform cate condensates applied to circumstellar
   environments Ri- Spectrometer FTS spectra at wavelengths greater than
   10 etmeijer, et al., 1999a,b and to the ISM Nuth, Hallenbeck m.
   Supporting laboratory measurements are scarce for and Rietmeijer, 1998;
   2000 that demonstrate the importance these wavelengths, but are crucial
   for the analysis of data of metastable eutectics during the vapor-solid
   phase transi- from upcoming space missions such as Cassini, where CIRS
   tion. In particular, we demonstrated that separate populations will
   obtain spectra of Saturn and Titan from 7 to 1000 m. of pure magnesium
   silicate and pure iron silicate smokes Recent activities of the group
   have included obtaining and/or condense from an
   iron-magnesium-silica-rich vapor phase. analyzing spectral data for
   excited state and fundamental This observation greatly simplifies
   prediction of the spectral transitions in H2 , 13C 12CH6 , 12C2H6 ,
   C2H4 , C2H2 , N2O, properties of the initial condensate Nuth,
   Rietmeijer, et al., CO2, C3H4 both the methylacetylene and allene
   isomers , 2000 and the spectral evolution of the smokes as a function
   CH3)2CO and HNO3 . This work has been carried out in of thermal
   annealing Hallenbeck et al., 2000 . collaboration with personnel at
   several institutions including Experimental studies of the nucleation
   of dilute iron va- W. Blass U. of Tennessee , N. Donahue Harvard
   Univer- pors demonstrated that single magnetic domain iron grains sity
   , J. Frye Howard University , J. Johns NRC, Canada , form spontaneously
   in the complete absence of a magnetic M. Mickelson Denison University ,
   A. Perrin C.N.R.S., field Nuth and Withey, 1999 . Such grains were
   observed to Paris , L. Strow UMBC , C. Suarez NRC, Argentina and be
   fully magnetized and coagulated extremely efficiently due R. Tipping U.
   of Alabama . These measurements have al- 4 ANNUAL REPORT ready impacted
   planetary studies. For example, the 13 12 C product of methane
   photochemistry and is a chemically im- ethane (13C12CH6) intensities
   have been used in conjunction portant trace species in the atmosphere
   of Jupiter, Saturn, with ground-based observations to infer an
   essentially terres- and Titan. The two manuscripts have been submitted
   for trial 13C/12C ratio on Jupiter and Saturn, while the intensities
   publication. of the ethylene C2H4) transitions have been used to obtain
   A Model for Beam-Integrated High Resolution Spectral concentrations of
   this species in the upper atmosphere of Line Observations. T. Hewagama
   and K. Fast U. of Mary- Saturn. The low temperature line intensity and
   self- and ni- land , J. Goldstein and T. Livengood, and T. Kostiuk have
   trogen broadened measurements of the 9 band of allene developed a
   numerical algorithm that will accurately model near 28 m are the first
   such measurements of this band, and beam integrated spectral lines from
   molecules in solar sys- are among the longest wavelength TDL data ever
   obtained. tem planetary atmospheres. The model employs a vertically The
   high-pressure, long-pathlength CO inhomogeneous infrared radiative
   transfer algorithm to cal- 2 broadening spectra show the clear effects
   of line-mixing and far-wing line culate the contributions from
   different portions of the source shapes in this species and may be used
   to model atmospheric for a given atmospheric thermal profile, and
   accurately ap- spectra for the Mars Global Surveyor. The parameters ob-
   plies the beam response and manifestations due to atmo- tained from
   these experiments are crucial to the proper inter- spheric dynamics. An
   important feature of the model is the pretation of the upcoming CIRS
   measurements of the atmo- incorporation of a non-linear model parameter
   optimization sphere of Titan. The group has also developed theoretical
   algorithm which provides the capability of fitting observa- models for
   the infrared spectra of molecules in cometary tional data. The model
   was used to derive the ethane molecu- comae including formaldehyde,
   methanol and OCS. lar abundance and direction of the zonal wind field
   in Titan's As well as obtaining and analyzing spectra, the group
   stratosphere from IR heterodyne spectroscopy observations. places a
   strong emphasis on improving instrumentation and, It is also being used
   in the analysis of IR heterodyne spec- among other accomplishments, has
   developed a unique TDL troscopy observations of molecular lines in the
   atmospheres system for obtaining spectra to 30 m employing ad- of
   Jupiter, Venus, and Mars. vanced Si:As and Si:Sb BIB detectors, high
   performance lead-salt lasers, and a long-path White-type sample cell. A
   3.1 Venus very long-path, coolable White-type cell has been developed
   which allows spectra to be obtained at pathlengths in excess Data
   analysis by F. Schmu¨lling NRC , J. Goldstein, T. of 500 m and at
   temperatures as low as 120 K. The group has Hewagama U. of Maryland ,
   and T. Kostiuk, of high preci- used the BIB detectors and a CsI
   beamsplitter to obtain high- sion wind measurements of the upper Venus
   atmosphere is currently in process. Lines in both 12CO resolution, long
   wavelength, FTS spectra using a Brucker 2 emission and 13CO
   spectrometer at Harvard University. The group also uses the 2
   absorption from the atmosphere of Venus, measured at a resolving power
   of 6 x 106 using infrared heterodyne Kitt Peak National Observatory's
   McMath-Pierce FTS spec- spectroscopy, are being analyzed to retrieve
   high altitude trometer to obtain accurately calibrated spectra of
   molecules 110 km horizontal wind velocities for a sub-solar to anti- of
   planetary and terrestrial interest, and has developed sev- solar flow
   and a zonal retrograde component; and a lower eral techniques e.g.
   double-passing the beam to double the altitude 70 km anti-solar to
   sub-solar return flow. The ac- spectral resolution to enhance this
   spectrometer. An effort is curacy of the results will be on the order
   of 1 m/s. also in place to develop methods for external cavity stabili-
   zation of long-wavelength TDLs. Infrared Heterodyne Spectroscopy of
   Isotopic Ethylene. 3.2 The Moon T. Kostiuk, W. Blass U. of Tennessee ,
   T. Livengood, T. Solar Eclipse Predictions. In November 1999, F.
   Espenak Hewagama, and D. Buhl in collaboration with V. authored NASA
   TP-1999-209484 titled ``Total Solar Eclipse Morozhenko and A. Kollyukh
   Institute of Semiconductor of 2001 June 21.'' This publication contains
   complete details Physics, Ukraine completed two papers ``Infrared
   Hetero- for the eclipse including tables, maps, figures, and meteoro-
   dyne Spectroscopic Measurements of Ethylene and Isotopic logical
   statistics for viewing sites. The NASA eclipse bulle- Ethylene
   (13C12CH4) Transitions Between 840 cm 1 and tins are prepared in
   cooperation with the IAU Working 980 cm 1'' and ``Self and Nitrogen
   Broadening of the Group on Eclipses as a public service to both the
   profes- 102011 ,10 1910 ,9 Ethylene Transition at 927.01879 sional and
   lay communities, including educators and the me- cm 1'' The retrieved
   molecular parameters are needed for dia. The publication is also
   available on the web at http:// interpreting measurements at high
   spectral resolution from umbra.nascom.nasa.gov/ eclipse/010621/rp.html.
   planetary atmospheres and astrophysical sources. The Infra- Migration
   of Hydrogen to the Lunar Poles. D. Crider and red Heterodyne
   Spectroscopy group at GSFC has used a R. Vondrak have constructed a
   Monte Carlo model that laboratory infrared heterodyne spectrometer to
   measure the simulates the migration of particles in the lunar
   exosphere. strength, pressure-broadening, and frequency of 168 The
   particles begin at a location consistent with the expected
   rotational-vibrational transition lines in the 4 , 7 , and 10
   distribution of particles given the solar wind as the source. bands of
   isotopic ethylene (12C2H4 and 13C12CH4) at room The particle then
   reacts with the surface through sputtering. temperature and at low
   pressures typical of planetary strato- The particle is assumed to
   thermalize to the local surface spheres. Frequencies and intensities
   were determined to bet- temperature of the Moon. It is released with a
   velocity taken ter than 5x10-5 cm 1 and 10% respectively. Pressure
   broad- from the Maxwellian distribution at that local temperature in
   ening coefficients were determined to 10%. Ethylene is a a random
   direction. Under the effects of gravity, the trajec- NASA/GSFC
   LABORATORY FOR EXTRATERRESTRIAL PHYSICS 5 tory is calculated. If the
   particle escapes the Moon, it is re- nection with seafloor spreading.
   The alignment of these fea- corded as lost to the system. While in
   transit, it has a prob- tures follows approximately that of grabens and
   stress faults ability of being ionized by solar photons or solar wind
   associated with the Tharsis rise suggesting that the lineations
   particles. If it is ionized, it is lost from the system. Other- could
   have been caused by buckling and fracturing of an wise, the particle is
   allowed to land at its new position, ther- ancient, thin magnetized
   shell rather than a continuous malize and take another hop. If the
   particle lands poleward of spreading process. The intense magnetization
   ( 20A/m of 85°, we test to see if it arrived in a cold trap by
   comparing the crustal layer, modeled as a 30 Km slab, is another prob-
   the fraction of cold trap area at that pole to a random num- lem that
   has been addressed by members of the team. Labo- ber. The trapped
   particles are counted. If the particle lands on ratory studies of
   magnetic susceptibility in meteorites sug- the night side of the Moon,
   it remains adsorbed in place until gest that hematite may play an
   important role in explaining the lunation brings it across the
   terminator. D. Crider and R. the high remnant magnetization of the
   crust. Vondrak find that the solar wind can supply enough hydro-
   Analysis of Mars Global Surveyor Magnetic Field and gen to the polar
   hydrogen deposits in 36 million years. This Electron Data to Understand
   the Solar Wind Interaction amount of time is reasonable considering the
   stability of the with Mars. D. Crider and members of the Magnetometer-
   Moon's orbit. Electron Reflectometer MAG/ER team have conducted
   qualitative analyses of the magnetic field morphology in the 3.3 Mars
   solar wind interaction with Mars using MAG/ER data. The Martian
   Volatiles. Analysis of ground-based Mars spec- radial component of the
   magnetic field on the dayside of tral mapping data acquired during the
   April 1999 opposition Mars, away from the strong crustal fields was
   investigated. Ls 130 by D. Glenar and G. Bjoraker, D. Blaney JPL , In
   the draping picture, the solar wind magnetic field is and R. Joyce KPNO
   has demonstrated that Martian vola- mostly horizontal on the entire
   dayside of the planet, with a tiles can be distinguished, mapped and
   inventoried at re- slight downward or upward component that is grouped
   by gional scales using ground-based near-IR spectroscopy at east-west
   hemispheres in a magnetic field aligned coordinate moderately high
   spectral resolution R 1000 . S. Polar CO system. It was found that the
   radial part of the magnetic field 2 ice has been identified and mapped
   using ``forbidden'' 2.28 has an average that is closer to zero inside
   the ionosphere and 2.32 micron features which are sensitive to grain
   size. than outside of the ionosphere. However, the distribution is The
   data set, acquired at roughly the beginning of the Mars much broader
   inside the ionosphere than outside. This result Global Surveyor science
   mapping mission, also reveals the fits well with those of D. Mitchell
   U. of California, Berke- distribution of mid-North latitude H ley who
   has shown that the ionosphere tends to extend to 2O ice clouds, and
   ten- tatively a N. polar H higher altitudes over the strong crustal
   magnetic sources. 2O ice collar. Both of these have been observed
   independently by MGS/TES J. Pearl/693 . Reduc- Their results show a
   broad distribution inside the ionosphere tion of the data is continuing
   and a manuscript summarizing due to contributions from the strongly
   magnetized regions, the detection and measured distribution of Martian
   volatiles even though they tried to avoid those areas. is in
   preparation. O3 in the Atmosphere of Mars. W. Maguire is continuing
   Magnetic Field of Mars. Completion of aerobraking ma- his
   characterization of ozone in Mars atmosphere using the neuvers by the
   Mars Global Surveyor allowed the acquisition IR limb data from the
   Thermal Emission Spectrometer TES of close-in magnetic field data by
   the Magnetometer/Electron instrument on the Mars Global Surveyor MGS .
   Photo- Reflectometer MAG/ER over a significant portion of the chemical
   models predict a large seasonal variation in O3 planet covering a broad
   range of longitudes and latitudes. M. abundance, in higher abundance as
   water vapor abundance Acun a is the Principal Investigator P.I. for the
   MAG/ER, J. decreases. In addition, the models predict a significant
   diur- Connerney and P. Wasilewski are Co-investigators Co-I's . nal
   variation of O3 superimposed on this seasonal variation. Mapping of the
   strong crustal magnetic sources previously These models, together with
   ground- and other spacecraft- discovered during the first aerobraking
   and science phasing based observations, are being used as guides in the
   analysis orbits revealed the existence of very strongly magnetized ar-
   of large spectral averages assembled from the TES data. P. eas south of
   the dichotomy boundary and a very close cor- Christensen Arizona State
   University is the TES P.I. and J. relation between the location of the
   sources and the ancient, Pearl is a Co-I. In collaboration with J.
   Pearl, M. Smith, B. cratered highlands of Noachian age. Furthermore,
   the ab- Conrath, M. Kaelberer, E. Winter and E. Guandique, and P. sence
   of crustal magnetization in large impact plains such as Christensen
   P.I., Arizona State Univ. MGS/TES data Hellas and Argyre suggests that
   the Martian dynamo ceased analysis is being carried out. Recent results
   include mapping to operate very early in the history of the planet,
   within the Mars's water vapor. first few hundred million years. This
   important discovery has Ozone Study by Using Photolysis Product. R.
   Novak profound implications for our current understanding of Mars'
   spent his sabbatical year at GSFC working with M. Mumma. early history
   and thermal evolution. Added to these impor- R. Novak, M. Mumma, and M.
   DiSanti conducted the first tant findings is the discovery of very
   strongly magnetized detailed study of ozone on Mars using emission from
   its linear features extending thousands of Km in Terra Sirenum
   photolysis product, the O2(1 g) band system, to probe ozone and Terra
   Cimmeria has further challenged our understand- in the middle
   atmosphere. They also measured atmospheric ing of tectonic processes at
   Mars. The structure of these water by observing the 1 band of HDO near
   3.67 m magnetic lineations suggests the prior existence of tectonic
   DiSanti and Mumma 1995 . Both species were mapped at processes at Mars
   similar to those observed at Earth in con- high spatial resolution, and
   diurnal and seasonal effects were 6 ANNUAL REPORT explored. Enhanced
   ozone was detected over the dawn ter- to monitor the state of the
   magnetosphere in support of the minator, confirming the predicted
   buildup during the Martian Galileo Mission. night. Together, these
   measurements provide a new approach Spectropolarimetry. In
   collaboration with Matthew J. for studies of the water-ozone cycle on
   Mars. Penn California State University , D. Branston National Infrared
   Heterodyne Measurements of O3 in the Atmo- Solar Observatory - Tucson ,
   and the Staff at the National sphere of Mars. F. Espenak and R.
   Cortland National Space Solar Observatory at Sacramento Peak, the Dunn
   Solar Tele- Club Summer Scholar completed basic reduction and pre-
   scope DST was used to acquire polarimetric images for liminary analysis
   of Mars spectra obtained with the Goddard sodium line emissions in and
   near the Io torus during the Infrared Heterodyne Spectrometer IRHS to
   measure ozone Galileo's encounter with Io. The data is being reduced to
   in the atmosphere of Mars at 9.66 microns. The observations obtain
   polarization maps of the regions observed. were performed atop Mauna
   Kea at the coude focus of the 3 Composition of the Jovian Atmosphere.
   G. Bjoraker and meter NASA Infrared Telescope Facility IRTF during T.
   Hewagama are using spectra of Jupiter acquired with the March 1999.
   Terrestrial O3 normally renders Earth's atmo- CSHELL spectrometer at
   NASA's Infrared Telescope Facil- sphere opaque to these frequencies,
   but Mars' large geocen- ity in Hawaii to study the deep atmosphere.
   Observations of tric radial velocity near quadrature shifts the O3
   lines into the CH wings of their telluric counterparts where the
   terrestrial at- 4 and NH3 were obtained simultaneously with measure-
   ments by the Near Infrared Mapping Spectrometer on the mosphere is
   transparent enough to permit the observations. Galileo Orbiter. The
   methane observations are sensitive to Radiative transfer analysis
   software is being modified for the abundance of water vapor between 3
   and 7 bars on Jupi- migration onto the SUN workstation. ter. This
   technique permits mapping H2O on Jupiter using ground-based telescopes.
   Preliminary results show dramatic variations in the abundances of both
   H 3.4 Jupiter and Io 2O and NH3 near the Great Red Spot. Additional
   observations are planned to sup- Jupiter Observing Program: H port the
   Cassini flyby of Jupiter in December 2000. 3 Aurora and Io Flux Tube
   Footprint. J. Connerney and T. Satoh Science Univer- Jovian Mid-IR
   Aurora and the Solar Cycle. T. Kostiuk, sity of Tokyo continue a
   program of long-term observations with Co-I's T. Livengood and J.
   Goldstein, K. Fast, and T. of Jupiter at 3.42 m wavelength using the
   NSFCAM infra- Hewagama U. of Maryland , and D. Buhl are continuing red
   camera and NASA's IRTF at Mauna Kea, Hawaii. An their study of the
   long-term variability of Jupiter's mid- image obtained at this
   wavelength shows H infrared aurora. Evidence for solar cycle-dependent
   varia- 3 emission from high altitudes above the methane homopause
   against a tions in the intensity of 12 m emissions of the ethane mol-
   darkened planetary disc by absorption due to methane . ecule in
   Jupiter's polar aurorae has been observed since 1977 These images
   evidence intense and omnipresent auroral using infrared heterodyne and
   Voyager IRIS spectroscopic emissions at both magnetic poles and
   emission at the foot of observations. Ground based measurements were
   conducted the Io Flux Tube IFT . The latter often appears as an iso-
   from the NASA Infrared Telescope Facility IRTF and lated, sub-arcsecond
   spot which moves across Jupiter's disc along with Voyager IRIS data,
   span nearly 2 solar cycles, in concert with the orbital motion of Io
   Connerney et al., with the most recent observations in November 1999. A
   so- 1993 ; it is excited by the electrodynamic interaction of Ju- lar
   cycle dependence is significant, as no such dependence piter's magnetic
   field with Io. Emission extending well has been noted in any other
   emission from Jupiter's auroral downstream 60 degrees of the IFT
   footprint along Io's L regions. Such dependence may signal changes
   either in the shell can be seen at times in both hemispheres. High time
   properties of the impinging particle beams or in the target resolution
   imagery of the IFT footprint is used to further our atmosphere
   receiving the beam. Additional measurements understanding of the
   electromagnetic interaction between Ju- are planned in December 2000 in
   coordination with Cassini piter and Io. Composite Infrared Spectrometer
   CIRS during the Cassini Recent imagery reveals over some longitudes
   multiple flyby of Jupiter. Complementary information on altitude and
   footprints at the foot of the IFT suggesting multiply reflected spatial
   extent of the emission, hydrocarbon abundances, and Alfve´n waves
   passing between Jupiter's ionosphere and the temperature will be
   retrieved by the coordinated measure- high density torus Connerney and
   Satoh, 2000 . A catalog ments. of observed surface locations of the IFT
   footprint has been Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9. D. Deming and J. Harrington
   used to greatly improve models of Jupiter's magnetic field Cornell
   University have completed the first phase of their Connerney et al.,
   1998 . These images are also used to modeling of the infall of the SL9
   impact plume. They begin model the distribution of Jovian H3 emissions
   in the au- their parameterized models with power-law plume ejecta; a
   roral regions and to monitor the dynamic state of the Jovian ballistic
   Monte Carlo method is used to calculate synthetic magnetosphere. A
   linearized inverse method is used to ex- views of the plumes in flight,
   infall fluxes, and debris pat- tract an emission model from many images
   of the aurora, terns on the Jovian disk. These calculated plume views
   and obtained at different Central Meridian Longitudes Satoh and debris
   patterns are compared with observations in order to Connerney, 1999 .
   Evidence is found for enhanced emissions determine the parameters of
   the model such as the tilt and at longitudes marked by weaker surface
   magnetic field mag- opening angle of the ejecta cone, velocity cutoff
   values in the nitudes, and there appears to be a local time enhancement
   in power law, etc. The infall fluxes from the best-fit ballistic
   emissions poleward of the auroral oval in the dusk sector. A model are
   then used to initialize a radiative-hydrodynamic continued program of
   observation of the aurora is conducted RH model of the plume infall.
   The RH model is based on NASA/GSFC LABORATORY FOR EXTRATERRESTRIAL
   PHYSICS 7 Zeus-3D, modified to include radiative transport in the gray
   field model. Although this is not true for a three-dimensional
   approximation. The RH model follows the interaction of the model, these
   results raise questions on the application of the infalling plume with
   the atmosphere, and computes infrared cyclotron maser theory to bKOM
   emission. light curves versus wavelength. The resultant light curves
   are M. Reiner, M. Kaiser, and M. Desch reanalyzed the Ul- in excellent
   agreement with observations, and have allowed ysses data taken during
   the Ulysses-Jupiter encounter to look Harrington and Deming to identify
   the nature of several pre- for possible long term periodicities in the
   Jovian radiation. viously mysterious SL9 phenomena, including ``third
   precur- The recurrence of the solar wind two-sector structure at the
   sors,'' ``McGregor's ring,'' the ``bounce,'' and the ``flare.''
   spacecraft was strongly reflected in the intensities of Jovian The
   ``flare'' was observed to occur near 1000 sec post- bKOM and nKOM radio
   emissions. Furthermore, a repeated impact as a sharp spike in the 0.9 m
   light curves observed pattern was found where a sharp cessation of the
   bKOM by several groups, and the models clarify the nature of this
   emission was followed, after a short time delay, by an abrupt and the
   aforementioned phenomena. It is planned to make onset of an nKOM
   ``event,'' which lasted for some 5 days. the atmospheric models widely
   available to the community This behavior of the bKOM and nKOM emissions
   was re- as a resource for SL9 data analysis. peated for four
   consecutive 25-day periods during the Ul- Temporal Study of
   SL9-Introduced Ammonia in Jupiter's ysses inbound trajectory.
   Stratosphere. K. Fast U. of Maryland , working with LEP members T.
   Kostiuk, D. Buhl, F. Espenak, and P. Romani, 3.5 Saturn and Titan and
   with A. Betz and R. Boreiko U. of Colorado, Boulder IR Spectral Imaging
   of Saturn and Titan. An observa- and T. Livengood, are analyzing
   infrared heterodyne spectra tional program to explore the atmosphere of
   Saturn and the of NH3 introduced into Jupiter's stratosphere by the
   impact atmosphere/surface interaction of Titan is continuing with N. of
   Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9. Measured time scales for the Chanover New
   Mexico State University as P.I. Scientific removal of ammonia from the
   stratosphere by solar ultravio- Co-I's include D. Glenar and G.
   Bjoraker, J. Hillman U. of let photolysis will shed light on chemical
   and dynamical pro- Maryland , and D. Kuehn Pittsburg State University .
   We cesses in the Jovian stratosphere. Infrared heterodyne ammo- are
   using three acousto-optic tunable filter AOTF cameras nia emission line
   spectra at a resolving power of 107 were developed at GSFC. Analysis of
   spectral imaging data from obtained by Betz et al., and are being
   analyzed using the this class of camera should improve our
   understanding of the BEAMINT modeling software to retrieve
   stratospheric am- atmospheric dynamics and chemistry of these bodies.
   User monia mole fractions and altitude distributions, and tempera-
   interface software for the new IR camera was developed by ture
   information. Spectra from six different impact regions D. Kuehn who
   served as Summer 2000 GSFC Summer Fac- were acquired from hours to 3
   weeks following the impacts ulty Fellow, in collaboration with GSFC
   colleague D. Gle- on up to 4 different days for each site, enabling an
   investi- nar. Saturn was observed at the Apache Point Observatory
   gation of the temporal behavior of ammonia abundance and 3.5 meter
   telescope in January 2000, and these data are cur- temperatures in
   Jupiter's stratosphere. The combined data set rently being analyzed.
   Titan was observed in October 1999 can be used to investigate the
   long-term behavior of ammo- using adaptive optics at the Mount Wilson
   100`` telescope. nia in the stratosphere, as well as provide
   constraints on cur- These data are being deconvolved and processed at
   New rent photochemical models. Mexico State University, and will be
   analyzed using models Jovian Broadband Radio Emissions. C. Barrow Max
   that correct for Titan's atmosphere. The surface reflectivity Planck
   Institute , A. Lecacheux Observatoire de Paris , R. that we derive at
   0.94 microns, the shortest surface-sounding MacDowall, and M. Kaiser
   studied Jovian broadband radio wavelength that has been used from
   ground-based tele- emission bKOM detected by the Ulysses spacecraft
   during scopes, is being compared with other results in the near-IR to
   1994 to 1996 during which time the spacecraft was more gain insight
   into Titan's surface composition. Titan will be than 5 AU from Jupiter.
   All of the bKOM events observed observed again in November 2000 to
   obtain global coverage when Ulysses was at northern jovicentric
   latitudes were pre- of the satellite. The atmospheres of both Saturn
   and Jupiter dominantly right-hand RH polarized while events recorded
   will also be observed in November 2000 using VIS and IR when the
   spacecraft was at southerly jovicentric latitudes AOTF cameras. These
   observations should reveal the com- were predominantly LH polarized,
   the change taking place at plex interaction between thermal radiation
   escaping from the approximately 0 deg jovimagnetic latitude. Compared
   with planetary interiors and visible cloud structures in the tropo-
   previous observations of the bKOM, made by spacecraft spheres of these
   planets. considerably closer to Jupiter, the present occurrence prob-
   Titan Stratospheric Condensates. R. Samuelson and L. abilities were
   lower for the LH polarized events although the Mayo Raytheon/IBS have
   reanalyzed Voyager 1 IRIS data distribution was similar. For the RH
   polarized events, how- of Titan's north polar hood using a radiative
   transfer model ever, the distribution was different, the so-called main
   peak appropriate for spherical atmospheres that includes scattering
   being absent or, perhaps, displaced towards a larger central and
   collision induced absorption. Analysis of the spectral meridian
   longitude. It was shown that, in a two-dimensional continuum between
   250 and 600 cm 1 suggests thin conden- model, if cyclotron maser
   emission in a dipole magnetic field sate clouds in the lower
   stratosphere consisting of particles is assumed for Jupiter, the
   detection of bKOM at a given with effective radii between 1 and 5
   micrometers. Composi- frequency by a spacecraft at a specified
   location, uniquely tion is unknown, but either condensed hydrocarbons
   or ni- determines the complete geometry of the emission cone for triles
   are consistent with the data. Some depletion of a coex- an assumed
   value of L the invariant longitude and a given isting photochemical
   aerosol compared with regions not 8 ANNUAL REPORT containing
   condensates appears to be required, implying a both moderate - and high
   - dispersion, along with the CO partial sweeping up of the aerosol by
   precipitating cloud par- fundamental region near 4.67 m). Global
   production rates ticles. were obtained for seven parent volatiles:
   water, carbon mon- Rings of Saturn in the mid-IR. T. Livengood, T.
   Kostiuk, oxide, methanol, methane, ethane, acetylene, and hydrogen C.
   Lisse U. of Maryland and STScI , and H. Ka¨ufl Euro- cyanide. Many new
   multiplets from OH in the 1-0 band were pean Southern Observatory have
   imaged Saturn and its seen in prompt emission, and numerous new
   unidentified rings in the mid-Infrared. Images were obtained in
   October- spectral lines were detected. Three hypervolatiles methane,
   December 1996, at the European Southern Observatory us- ethane, and
   acetylene had abundances similar to those in ing the Thermal Infrared
   Multi-Mode Instrument TIMMI comets Hyakutake and Hale-Bopp, but carbon
   monoxide was on the 3.6-m telescope. Photometric images were made
   strongly depleted in comet Lee. This difference demonstrates through
   filters from 7.7 m to 13 m with the TIMMI that chemical diversity
   occurred in the giant-planets' nebular 64x64 element Ga:Si array at an
   image scale of 0.5 arcsec/ region, where these three comets originated.
   pixel. The ring ansae brightness was modeled as a function M. Mumma, M.
   DiSanti, N. Dello Russo, R. Novak, and of radial distance from Saturn
   based on the viewing geom- K. Magee-Sauer investigated the organic
   volatile composi- etry. Analysis of spectrophotometry indicates a peak
   in the tion of the dynamically new comet C/1999 S4 Linear , us- emitted
   radiance of the rings near 12 m. A significant dif- ing CSHELL at the
   NASA IRTF and NIRSPEC at the Keck ference in the radiance from the East
   and West ansae was Observatory during July 2000. They found that CO was
   observed, with a maximum ratio W/E of 2 near 11.3 m. present at an
   abundance of 1% relative to water, the lowest Possible explanations for
   the difference include thermal heat- detected to date among the
   long-period and new comets. The ing and cooling, ring geometry, and
   ring particle properties hypervolatiles methane and ethane were
   detected at levels and composition. much lower than found in comets
   Hyakutake, Hale-Bopp, Titan Winds. A paper has been submitted by T.
   Kostiuk and Lee. Methanol was searched but was not detected. The with
   co-authors T. Livengood, J. Goldstein, T. Hewagama comet disrupted in
   mid-July, terminating the investigation. and K. Fast U. of Maryland ,
   and D. Buhl and F. Espenak Analysis is in progress. describing first
   direct measurements of the global circulation V. Krasnopolsky Catholic
   University , M. Mumma, and on Titan using the Goddard Infrared
   Heterodyne Spectrom- M. J. Abbott U. of California, Berkeley
   investigated soft eter IRHS . A beam integrated radiative transfer
   software X-ray emission from comets Borrelly, Encke, Mueller 1993
   package BEAMINT for beam-integrated high resolution A1 , and Hale-Bopp
   post-perihelion . Borrelly and Hale- spectral line observations has
   been developed to model the Bopp were detected and upper limits were
   obtained for Doppler-shifted ethane line spectra observed on Titan. Re-
   Mueller and Encke, bringing the total to five comets detected sults
   indicate a globally averaged zonal wind of 100 m/s in of the eight in
   the EUVE database. The measured signal in the direction of Titan's
   rotation. Current results and future these comets is proportional to 2
   r 2Qgas , consistent with measurements are important for the
   optimization of the excitation by solar wind charge transfer. The
   outburst de- Cassini's Huygens Probe science investigation,
   particularly tected by BeppoSAX in Hale-Bopp and the non-detection by
   surface studies. Results will also provide significant con- ROSAT
   remain puzzling, but these are best explained if the straints on
   dynamical models of atmospheres of slowly ro- BeppoSAX detection
   represents enhanced charge transfer tating bodies. during a gas
   release. The ROSAT non-detection is puzzling. V. Krasnopolsky and M.
   Mumma completed analysis of 3.6 Comets their EUVE spectrum of comet
   Hyakutake which covers the spectral range 8.0-70.0 nm with a resolving
   power of 10. M. Mumma reviewed tests of cometary origins at the ISSI
   Emission lines of multiply charged ions were detected. These Cometary
   Workshop Zurich . In 1999, the Internationa As- ions are brought to the
   comet by the solar wind and are tronomical Union named asteroid 8340
   ``Michael J. excited in charge exchange with cometary neutral species.
   Mumma'' in recognition of his work on the volatile compo- The detected
   He II line at 30.4 nm is excited in a similar sition of comets, which
   provided the first definitive detec- process involving solar wind alpha
   particles. The photon lu- tions of water, methanol, methane, and ethane
   in comets, and minosity measured at energies below 100 eV exceeds that
   the first infrared detections of carbon monoxide and carbonyl above 100
   eV by a factor of 2. The O II lines at 53.8/53.9 sulfide. nm, 61.7 nm,
   and 43.0/44.2 nm are also detected; these lines M. Mumma, M. DiSanti,
   N. Dello Russo, R. Novak, and are formed by photo-ionization of atomic
   oxygen similar to K. Magee-Sauer Rowan Univ. made the first
   observations the process giving rise to Earth's dayglow. Neon is
   depleted of a comet with NIRSPEC, a new facility instrument at the in
   Hyakutake by more than a factor of 2600 relative to the Keck
   Observatory atop Mauna Kea, HI. NIRSPEC is the first solar abundance,
   confirming the current view that Oort cloud of a new generation of
   cross-dispersed cryogenic infrared comets formed in the Jupiter-Neptune
   region of the solar spectrometers, for use in the 1 - 5 m wavelength
   spectral nebula. range. The observations were conducted in
   collaboration with the instrument development Team I. McLean UCLA , P.
   I. , during instrument commissioning. The team investi- 3.7
   MeteoritesÕAsteroids gated the volatile composition of the long-period
   comet Database of Bulk Elemental Compositions of Meteorites. C/1999 H1
   Lee during June - August 1999. The organics The X-ray/Gamma-Ray
   Spectrometer XGRS on the NEAR spectral region 2.9 - 3.7 m was
   completely sampled at spacecraft will determine the surface elemental
   composition NASA/GSFC LABORATORY FOR EXTRATERRESTRIAL PHYSICS 9 e.g.,
   Mg, Al, Si, Fe, O, and K possibly Ca, S, Ti, and Th of the
   cross-correlation near the velocity of the star, which they the S-class
   asteroid 433 Eros. These abundances should help attribute to a low mass
   object in a long-period orbit. A sec- elucidate both possible
   relationships to known classes of me- ond cross-correlation feature,
   weaker and more diffuse, was teorites and geological processes that
   occurred on Eros e.g., found at a velocity amplitude in agreement with
   the recent impact processing, partial melting . To aid in the analysis
   claimed detection of the planet in reflected light by Cameron and
   interpretation of the NEAR XGRS data, J. Trombka and et al. Additional
   IR observations are needed to confirm the his collaborators are
   compiling a database of bulk elemental reality of this feature.
   compositions of meteorites. They are limiting their database U. of
   Colorado LASP graduate student J. Richardson is to those they deem to
   be the most reliable, specifically se- in residence in the LEP working
   with D. Deming and C. lecting analyses of representative samples of
   falls or un- Goukenleuque, to observe the secondary eclipse of the
   weathered finds. Their initial emphasis is on classes of me-
   ``transiting planet'' orbiting HD209458. L. Esposito U. of teorites
   most likely related to Eros, including ordinary Colorado , J.
   Harrington Cornell U. and G. Wiedemann chondrites and several types of
   achondrites, and excluding ESO are also collaborating. The observations
   will utilize a meteorite types which are poor spectral matches for Eros
   differential spectrophotometric method to observe the subtle e.g.,
   carbonaceous and enstatite chondrites, aubrites . These change in the
   ``star planet'' spectrum as the planet is data form the basis for plots
   of elemental abundances and eclipsed. According to Goukenleuque's model
   for the planet, abundance ratios to distinguish classes of meteorites
   and the optimal wavelength is near 3.7 m where a flux peak in identify
   geological processes on Eros. This database is now the planetary
   spectrum is produced by a minimum in the on-line and has been
   successfully applied to the analysis of opacity. Observations are
   scheduled for October 2000 on the the NEAR X-ray Spectrometer XRS Data.
   NASA IRTF, and are proposed for other large telescopes in Surface
   Composition of 433 Eros. The first results ob- 2001. tained were
   derived from the NEAR/X-Ray Spectrometer NAS/NRC postdoctoral associate
   C. Goukenleuque is XRS observation of 433 Eros surface made during two
   working on improving his model for irradiated ``hot Jupiter'' M-Class
   flares and quiet sun conditions during the period extra-solar planets.
   These improvements will incorporate the May to July 2000. These results
   are compared to composi- opacity of strong metallic lines in the
   visible, as well as a tions of meteorite groups. Statistically
   significant results convective adjustment. from gamma-ray spectrometry
   require substantially longer Extrasolar Planetary Spectroscopic
   Modeling. T. Kostiuk integration times than from x-ray spectrometry.
   Low Alumi- and his collaborators are developing a spectral synthesis
   num abundances for all regions argue against global differ- model to
   calculate the thermal-IR spectra of extra-solar plan- entiation of
   Eros. Mg/Si, Al/Si, Ca/Si, and Fe/Si elemental etary systems. It can be
   used to study the atmospheric spectra ratios have been interpreted as a
   relatively primitive, chon- of terrestrial and Jovian type planets as
   well as the recently dritic composition. Marked depletions of sulfur
   and possible discovered hot-Jupiter-like planets. The model will be
   com- aluminum and calcium depletions, relative to ordinary chon-
   prehensive in the sense of including effects such as stellar drites,
   may represent signatures of limited partial melting or irradiation and
   viewing angle. The model can be used to plan impact volitilization.
   These measurements characterize the observational programs, and
   eventually to analyze direct- surface down to about 100 microns and
   only characterize a detection data. small fraction of the surface.
   Further, more complete elemen- tal composition maps will be obtained
   over the next months 4. SUN-EARTH CONNECTIONS until the end of the
   mission in February 2001. Elemental mapping of the entire surface
   should enable documentation Space Weather Modeling-The Community
   Coordinated of the presence or absence of compositional heterogeneity,
   Modeling Center (CCMC). The CCMC is a research and which would be an
   expected result from partial melting. development facility aiming at
   research in support of the Likewise, compositions derived from
   gamma-ray results, generation of advanced space weather models. New and
   im- which sample to depths of 10 cm, should indicate whether proved
   space research models will be created by combining the near-surface
   composition is characteristic of the compo- models and modules covering
   different spatial regions and sition at depth. Results from the NEAR
   Gamma-ray mea- different physical parameters. Models and modules are
   being surements will be available near the end of the mission. J.
   developed largely in the scientific community, but also at the Trombka
   is the P.I. for the X-ray/Gamma-ray Spectrometer CCMC GSFC facility
   itself. The ultimate goal of the CCMC system on NEAR. is the generation
   of one or more comprehensive space weather models, which cover as
   completely as possible the 3.8 Extra-solar Planets entire range from
   the solar corona to the Earth's upper atmo- sphere. Models that are
   developed and successfully applied Extra-solar Planetary Infrared
   Emissions. D. Deming and to scientific test problems are to be
   transitioned to the Rapid G. Bjoraker collaborated with G. Wiedemann
   ESO, Garch- Prototyping Centers of NOAA and the Air Force, for opera-
   ing to search for a methane signature in the extra-solar tional
   testing. These models will also be made source code planet orbiting Tau
   Bootis. They use a spectral deconvolu- available to the scientific
   community, to support the ``open tion method to search for the
   signature of methane absorp- model policy,'' and for the CCMC effort to
   remain nonex- tion near 3.28 m, using observations from CSHELL on the
   clusive. All initial external computational resources are now NASA
   IRTF. Cross-correlation of the data with a theoretical on-line. The
   CCMC has successfully ingested a first, mag- spectrum of planetary
   methane shows a significant peak in netospheric model, the University
   of Michigan global MHD 10 ANNUAL REPORT code. CCMC staff has developed
   a set of comprehensive into a wide region of very weak convection. A
   narrow con- visualization tools for this model. CCMC staff is in the
   pro- vection channel is coincident with the highest conductances cess
   of combining this model with a radiation belt code de- located just
   poleward of the Harang region. This channel veloped at GSFC. Current
   status and model results are avail- drives the substorm current wedge
   component of the west- able via the web page http://ccmc.gsfc.nasa.gov.
   An initial ward electrojet. The horizontal currents and the
   field-aligned operating capability has been accomplished. M. Hesse is
   currents derived from compare favorably with the field- leading this
   effort in collaboration with L. Rasta¨tter, M. Kuz- aligned currents
   determined from the magnetometer mea- netsova, P. Reitan, S. Ritter, A.
   Deane, and K. Keller. surements, thus confirming the technique used.
   Near-Real-Time Geomagnetic DisturbancePredictions. In Aurora Indices
   Analysis. R. Hoffman and J. Gjerloev ana- the prediction of the
   high-latitude electrodynamic iono- lyzed the characteristics during
   substorms of the auroral in- spheric state, a model of the
   auroral/polar surface field was dices AU and AL derived from ground
   magnetometer sta- developed last year. It has been coupled to the KRM
   proce- tions. In pre-midnight hours during the expansion phase and dure
   and the Ahn et al. conductance to yield the electric very early
   recovery phase they found that the station giving potential and
   ionospheric and field-aligned currents. The the AL index showed an
   auroral surge. A significant field September 1999 SCOSTEP S-RAMP Space
   Weather Cam- decrease was observed at post-midnight and morning hours.
   paign and ISR World Days provided an opportunity to put Plasma
   Transport and Energization. A group at GSFC several of our magnetic
   field prediction models on line and and other institutions, led by T.
   E. Moore, explored the trans- drive them with real-time solar wind from
   ACE. Three types port and energization of plasmas in the Earth's
   magneto- of models have been put on line: a Dst index; b AL/AU sphere,
   using theoretical tools guided by observations. Stud- indices and c
   high-latitude ground field B( , ). The ampli- ies ranged from the entry
   of solar wind plasma into the tude of the disturbance e.g. indices are
   generally well pre- magnetospheric cusp regions, to the transport
   through the dicted, but the latitudinal localization is still not
   satisfactory polar caps and lobes into the plasma sheet, to the
   formation the localization error is 7 degrees . The model database of
   the ring current and the relativistic radiation belt electrons. has now
   been enlarged to 3 months of data. Online predic- A comprehensive ring
   current model was developed by tions can be found by selecting ``Near
   Real-Time Predic- merger of the Fok model with the Rice Convection
   Model, tions'' on the NDSPG homepage at http:// substantially improving
   both models. A provocative hypoth- lepgst.gsfc.nasa.gov. The NDSPG
   group in Code 692 at esis was put forth suggesting that ionospheric or
   internal GSFC did this work. plasmas actually are an essential element
   of ring current for- mation. 4.1 Magnetospheric Physics Geomagnetic
   Storm/Substorm Relations. The relation be- tween particle injections
   and storm-time ring current was ISIS Digital Database. Digital ISIS 2
   topside-sounder also investigated by the Nonlinear Dynamics and Space
   ionograms are continuing to be produced by a team led by R. Physics
   Group at GSFC A. Klimas and collaborators using Benson of the LEP. The
   digital ionograms, produced from ground magnetometer data, solar wind
   parameters from the original analog telemetry tapes, are being archived
   at the ISEE3 and IMP-8, geosynchronous data, and in certain inter-
   National Space Science Data Center at GSFC. Nearly vals in 1991,
   ring-current particle fluxes from CRRES/ 300,000 digital ISIS-2
   ionograms from 18 globally distrib- MICS. Duringstrong storms 6/1991,
   9/1998 the geomag- uted telemetry stations, had been processed by the
   end of netic effect of the injected particles can be clearly discerned
   July 2000. They correspond to ionospheric topside soundings even from
   the ground magnetometers. The magnetic distur- during the 11-year
   interval from 1973 through 1983. Since bance due to an injection and
   its drift echoes can reach as most of these data were never processed
   into the conven- high as 35% of the geomagnetic field power associated
   with tional 35 mm analog film format, they are analogous to the the
   ring current. output of a successful new satellite mission covering
   this earlier solar cycle interval. A search program to assist in the
   retrieval of the data based on date, time, geographic or mag- 4.2
   Magnetotail netic parameters, status of instruments, etc. and an
   analysis NENL Onset Time and Location Determined. For the two program
   to invert the ionogram traces to electron-density July 9, 1997,
   substorms Geotail and IMP 8 measurements profiles are available from
   http://nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/space/ and simple plasma sheet flow model
   have been used to de- isis/isis-status.html. termine that open flux
   tube reconnection commenced in the Ionospheric Electrodynamics. R.
   Hoffman with J. Gjer- tail 1.5 to 3 min prior to the appearance of the
   traditional loev of Denmark continued their study of the electrodynam-
   onset signatures on the ground and in the ionosphere Slavin ics of
   substorms as observed in the ionosphere using data et al., 2000 . The
   location of the near-earth neutral line from the two Dynamics Explorer
   spacecraft. The height- NENL was X 17 Re . This is the first time that
   plasma integrated conductivities calculated from precipitating elec-
   and magnetic field observations were taken simultaneously trons are
   generally larger than previous models have shown, earthward and
   tailward of the NENL to localize its onset maximizing in the surge. The
   technique used attempts to time and location. This result is in
   excellent agreement with maintain the gradients in the parameters,
   which are important statistical surveys of high-speed flows in the
   plasma sheet for field-aligned current calculations. The classical
   Harang observed by the Geotail spacecraft. It also supports previous
   discontinuity is found not to exist during substorms except IMP 8
   traveling compression region analyses indicating that west of the
   auroral surge, but to broaden toward midnight slow, closed, plasma
   sheet flux tube reconnection begins up NASA/GSFC LABORATORY FOR
   EXTRATERRESTRIAL PHYSICS 11 to 5-6 min before expansion phase onset.
   The convective investigate the excitation of electrostatic lower hybrid
   waves propagation of the earthward flow bursts to the inner mag- in the
   magnetic field reversal region of the plasma sheet us- netosphere at X
   -9 Re and the ejection of the plasmoid past ing a gyro-kinetic
   approach. They consider a two- X -30 Re appeared to proceed with the
   expected flow dimensional tail configuration that includes magnetic
   field speeds of several hundreds of kilometers per second. Earth-
   components in x and z directions and study the non-local ward of
   Geotail the substorm onset indicators were simulta- properties of lower
   hybrid modes near the weak field region. neous to within 1 min
   indicating that the substorm current We derive a second order
   differential equation with curva- wedge develops and transfers energy
   and momentum on the ture drift and gradient B resonance effects
   included. Cur- much faster timescale of Alfve´n waves traveling between
   the rently the work is in progress to obtain eigenvalues by em- low
   latitude magnetosphere and the auroral zone. The exis- ploying
   analytical and numerical techniques. This analysis tence of these two
   timescales for the development of the will confirm the viability of an
   earlier work A. Sundaram, substorm expansion phase is one of the most
   basic predic- D. Fairfield, D. Vassiliadis, JGR, 103, 4649, 1998 on the
   tions of the modern NENL model of magnetospheric sub- excitation of
   electrostatic lower hybrid mode by the mag- storms. This research was
   conducted by J. Slavin, D. Fair- netic field gradient in the current
   sheet. field, M. Hesse, R. Lepping and A. Ieda. Modeling of
   Collisionless Magnetic Reconnection. M. Magnetotail Plasmoids and
   Auroral Brightenings. Mag- Hesse and M. Kuznetsova investigated kinetic
   processes of netotail plasma and magnetic field measurements from the
   relevance to the re-arrangement of magnetotail current sys- Geotail
   spacecraft have been compared with ultraviolet au- tems during the
   substorm growth and expansion phases. The roral images from the Polar
   spacecraft by A. Ieda and D. studies address microphysical processes
   occurring in the Fairfield. It is found that there is virtually a one
   to one rela- magnetotail current layer with clear macroscopic conse-
   tionship between the tailward release of a plasmoid and an quences.
   They are based on fully self-consistent, electromag- auroral
   brightening. Sometimes, however, the brightenings netic,
   particle-in-cell simulations. The first focus of the are small and not
   full magnetospheric substorms, even analyses is on the pre-onset
   formation of a thin current sheet. though accompanied by typical
   plasmoids. The plasmoids The additional current, brought about by the
   lobe magnetic typically follow brightenings within 2 minutes, however
   af- field increase associated with solar wind-like driving electric ter
   considering the likely time delay between the release and fields,
   appears to be carried by the electrons, in a thin current the
   observation of the plasmoid, it seems likely that the re- sheet of
   substantially enhanced current density. Thin current lease precedes the
   brightening. This early release of the plas- sheet formation leads to a
   reduction in the normal magnetic moid suggests that tail reconnection
   is the cause of auroral field, which is shown to be sufficient for
   magnetic reconnec- brightenings. tion to initiate. This onset is
   analyzed in detail. Last, an Ideal Ballooning Instabilities in the
   Plasma Sheet Region. investigation of the kinetic kink instability,
   which can lead to Possible mechanisms for the excitation of ideal
   ballooning strong current sheet warping, and potentially to turbulence,
   is instabilities in the plasma sheet region have been investi-
   presented. The results here support earlier analytical results gated by
   A. Sundaram and D. Fairfield. The excitation of indicating that kinetic
   kinking growth rates are strongly re- ideal ballooning modes in the
   plasma sheet region is inves- duced if realistic ion-electron mass
   ratios are considered. tigated using MHD fluid and kinetic
   descriptions. Two- Particle-in-cell, modified hybrid, Hall-MHD, andMHD
   dimensional equilibrium configurations for the distant tail simulations
   are used by M. Hesse, M. Kuznetsova, and L. and the transition regions
   dipole-like to tail-like are used. Rasta¨tter to investigate
   collisionless magnetic reconnection With the fluid approach, it is
   shown that both local and non- in thin current sheets, based on the
   configuration chosen for local ballooning modes are excited in the
   distant tail region the ``GEM magnetic reconnection challenge.'' The
   emphasis and plasma compressibility effects enhance the growth rates.
   is on the overall evolution, as well as details of the particle In the
   transition region, where a new equilibrium with pres- dynamics in the
   diffusion region. Here electron distributions sure anisotropy is
   developed, preliminary calculations show show clear signatures of
   nongyrotropy, whereas ion distribu- that the pressure anisotropy and
   compressional mode cou- tions are simpler in structure. The
   investigations are ex- pling effects cause the global excitation of new
   ballooning tended to current sheets of different widths. Here we derive
   a modes with fast growth rates. scaling law for the evolution
   dependence on current sheet Our analytical model describing the
   excitation of balloon- width. Finally, we perform a detailed comparison
   between a ing modes in the transition region supports recent substorm
   kinetic and Hall-magnetohydrodynamic model of the same related
   observations of shear Alfve´n coupled magnetosonic system. The
   comparison shows that, although electric fields modes. Further
   numerical work is in progress to determine appear to be quite similar,
   details of the evolution appear to the growth rates and thresholds for
   the instability. In the be considerably different, indicative of the
   role of further gyro-kinetic description, eigenvalue equation is
   derived, anisotropies in the ion pressures. These models, combined
   where the effects associated with the curvature drift and the with
   analytical theory were also used to derive an explicit gradient B
   resonances are included. This work is still in transport model which
   represents the essential physics in the progress, aiming to derive
   solutions both analytically and ion and electron dissipation regions.
   This model was in- numerically. cluded and extensively tested in an MHD
   model of magnetic Generation of Electrostatic Lower Hybrid Waves in the
   reconnection, and recently has been included into a larger Central
   Plasma Sheet Region. A. Sundaram, A. Figueroa- scale, regional MHD
   model of magnetotail dynamics. Vin as, and D. Fairfield are working on
   this project. They Recently, M. Hesse extended studies of magnetic
   recon- 12 ANNUAL REPORT nection to fully three-dimensional systems,
   applying a fully come from the pressure term. In the same study, N.
   Tsyga- electromagnetic particle-in-cell model developed in-house. nenko
   tried to predict the tail's lobe field even better, using Initial
   results of these simulations indicate that the basic solar wind
   parameters not only from the time of observation, structure of the
   dissipation region appears to be similar to the but also covering the
   preceding hour. In the inner magneto- one found in translationally
   invariant models. In addition, tail, the contribution from the
   pressure-dependent term was lower-hybrid-drift instabilities tend to
   broaden the current found to increase with growing time lag, suggesting
   that the sheet in the regions of steep density gradients. average delay
   between changes in solar wind pressure and Ring Current Formation. An
   investigation of the effect of the reaction of the lobe field was
   significant. At larger dis- ionospheric convection electric fields on
   ring-current forma- tances, the tail field was found to respond with
   much shorter tion was undertaken by M. Hesse. The study consists of a
   delays, which implied a greater role of directly driven pro-
   combination of a conceptual analysis of the magnetotail ef- cesses
   there. fects of ionospheric convection electric fields, an analytic N.
   Tsyganenko also developed a quantitative model of the estimate of the
   effects of plasma transport from the tail re- inner magnetospheric
   magnetic field, which combined the gion into the inner magnetosphere,
   followed by self- asymmetric ring current with field-aligned currents,
   gener- consistent magnetohydrodynamic simulations and simula- ated by
   an azimuthal variation of the plasma pressure. The tions using a
   recently improved, self-consistent version of model ring current and
   associated Birkeland currents were the Rice Convection Model. Supported
   by the self-consistent based on average radial profiles of particle
   pressure and an- models, the conceptual analysis predicts that plasma
   trans- isotropy observed by AMPTE/CCE spacecraft. Their fields port
   into the inner magnetosphere is impeded by the com- were calculated by
   the Biot-Savart integral, the results were pressive response of the
   plasma sheet plasma to the iono- fitted to analytical formulas, and the
   coefficients of those spheric convection electric field. An inductive
   electric field formulas were fitted by least squares to the calculated
   field. resulting from the self-consistent inner plasma sheet re- The
   goal of this work was to devise a realistic and compu- sponse
   effectively cancels the applied electric field yielding tationally
   efficient description of the asymmetric ring cur- very little plasma
   transport on small volume, high magnetic rent, to be included in an
   advanced model of the external field flux tubes. Instead, the inductive
   electric field modifies geomagnetic field. the magnetic configuration
   by deforming dipolar flux tubes Self-Organized Criticality in the
   Magnetosphere Plasma to more tail-like shapes, thereby satisfying the
   transport con- Sheet. The Nonlinear Dynamics and Space Physics Group
   straints applied at the ionospheric boundary. As a conclusion NDSPG in
   Code 692 A. Klimas, D. Vassiliadis, V. of these analyses, effective
   plasma transport into the dipolar Uritsky, J. Valdivia, J. Takalo, and
   R. J. Parks has focused magnetic field region in the inner
   magnetosphere and thus, its research on the stability of the
   magnetospheric current ring current formation, is possible only if the
   plasma content sheet was examined. Emphasis was placed M. Hesse on evi-
   of tail-like flux tubes is significantly reduced. The most dence for
   self-organized criticality SOC . A current sheet likely mechanism
   effecting this reduction is magnetic recon- model with a magnetic
   reversal region was examined in con- nection. It is therefore likely
   that magnetic reconnection and tinuum 1-D resistive MHD and discrete
   cellular automa- substorms facilitate, but do not directly cause, the
   formation ton approximations. Power-law spectra and distributions of of
   the storm-time ring current. system variables were found indicative of
   SOC in the sys- Multiscale Global Modeling of the Magnetosphere. S.
   tem. More important, the susceptibility of the modeled cur- Curtis is
   leading an effort to develop a three dimensional rent sheet was found
   consistent with the mean field theory of adaptive mesh MHD code which
   will include for the first SOC and, as the SOC limit was approached,
   the expected time in any simulation of the terrestrial magnetosphere, a
   expansion of the current sheet interaction region was veri- tilted,
   rotating dipole. His collaborators are D. Spicer of fied. Currently a
   2-D resistive MHD model of a reversal Goddard's Earth and Space
   Computing Division and staff of region is being developed and tested.
   GSFC's HPCC team. Investigation of the Magnetotail Field Response. N.
   4.3 Solar and Heliospheric Physics Tsyganenko investigated the
   dependence of the magnetotail Halo-Coronal Mass Ejections Near the 23rd
   Solar Mini- field on the dynamical pressure of the incoming solar wind,
   mum. A statistical analysis of such events during a 1-year the
   interplanetary magnetic field, and the level of the Dst- period near
   the last solar minimum December 1996- field. The study used
   magnetometer and plasma data from December 1997 was performed by an
   inter-institutional several years of Geotail, AMPTE/IRM, and ISEE-2,
   between team, focusing on 14 Halo-Coronal Mass Ejections H- 10 and 60
   Re . Interplanetary parameters were obtained from CMEs with distinct,
   non-overlapping signatures at the Sun. the IMP 8 and Wind spacecraft.
   The goal of the work was to The team included D. Berdichevsky, C.
   Farrugia U. of New identify, for databased magnetosphere models, the
   input vari- Hampshire , B. Thompson, R. Lepping, D. Reames, M. Kai-
   ables that best characterize changes in the cross-tail electric ser, J.
   Steinberg Los Alamos/New Mexico , and S. Plunkett, current. The highest
   value of the multiple correlation coeffi- and D. Mitchels both NRL/DC ,
   and it focused on solar and cient R between the predicted and observed
   tail lobe field interplanetary aspects. was given by a combination of
   the solar wind pressure-and The analysis begins with a typical sample,
   a Sun-Earth IMF-related quantities. In the near magnetotail, a very
   good event in which the full range of signatures at the Sun and in fit
   R 0.967 was obtained from a simple four-parameter the interplanetary
   medium was identified. After discussing in regression relation, and the
   largest contribution was found to some detail several individual
   events, a statistical analysis of NASA/GSFC LABORATORY FOR
   EXTRATERRESTRIAL PHYSICS 13 the whole set is presented. Tracking of the
   shock driven by tabase. Although systematic effects may be present,
   clear the ejecta, either by MeV energized particles and/or by kilo-
   evidence exists of more frequent occurrence of low density metric
   slowly-drifting radio emissions, was partially or fully plasma around
   solar activity maxima. available for 65% of the cases, and provided
   further infor- Periods of low mass flux and low dynamic pressure show
   mation about the Sun-Earth connection. It is emphasized that a similar
   behavior, previously noted in annual averages. Low while many of the
   events share common signatures on the density intervals may be more
   prevalent in weaker sunspot solar disk, phenomena both at the Sun and
   at 1 AU vary cycles. Around two-thirds of the periods with densities
   widely. It is concluded that no single feature at the Sun de- ( 1 cm 3)
   are associated with transient solar wind struc- termines the magnitude
   of the energy stored in magnetic field tures, in particular with ejecta
   and post-shock flows. The and plasma which is later observed at the
   Earth. At the end a majority of other events are associated with
   corotating conceptual model which might account for the diverse obser-
   streams. The May 1999 event was unusual because it was not vations at 1
   AU is put forward. clearly associated with an ejecta or a stream, but a
   similar Stokes Mapping at 12 m Wavelength. Full Stokes map- period was
   observed in July-August 1979. ping of magnetic fields in active regions
   has recently become The response of the Earth's magnetosphere to the
   very possible in the mid-infrared. The cryogenic spectrometer Ce-
   tenuous solar wind on May 11, 1999, was investigated by C. leste on the
   McMath-Pierce telescope has produced the first Farrugia and co-workers.
   They studied the Equatorial and 12 m measurement of all four Stokes
   parameters I, V, U, Polar regions using observations by multiple
   spacecrafts. and Q in sunspots. The magnesium MgI line at 12.3 m They
   found the magnetosphere to be quasi-dipolar for ap- wavelength exhibits
   a large Zeeman splitting that is resolved proximately 16 hours at six
   Earth radii. at field strengths above a few hundred gauss. In general,
   The Electron Strahl in the Low Density Solar Wind. A fields measured
   with this line originate in the upper photo- recent occurrence of an
   interval May 9-12, 1999 of abnor- sphere at heights above those
   measured in the visible and mally low density solar wind has drawn
   attention to such near infrared. The measurements are made by optically
   se- events. The SWE instrument on WIND observed nine similar lecting
   each Stokes parameter in sequence using 1/2- and events between
   November 1994 and August 1999, and the 1/4- wave plates, followed by a
   chopping linear ``polarizer.'' occurrence distribution in this period
   suggests a solar cycle The spectra are recorded with Celeste, a high
   resolution liq- dependence. Three events were studied in detail with
   SWE uid helium cooled grating spectrometer built by NASA's observations
   of the electron strahl Ogilvie et al., 2000 . The GSFC. Individual
   measurements record the MgI spectrum at strahl is the beam of electrons
   with energy above 100 eV each point along a 2.4 arcminute slit. Data
   cubes two- which move along the magnetic field away from the Sun. In
   dimensions spatial, one-dimension spectral are created for their paper
   on the solar origin of the polar rain, Fairfield and each Stokes
   parameter by stepping the slit across the portion Scudder 1985 analyzed
   the evolution of the strahl en route of the Sun being imaged. The
   unique infrared capability of from its coronal origin out to 1AU. They
   predicted that the the McMath-Pierce telescope, and its large aperture,
   makes strahl should be enhanced due to scatter-free magnetic focus-
   this work possible. D. Jennings, D. Deming, and G. McCabe, sing when
   the solar wind density is low. SWE observations T. Moran Catholic U. ,
   R. Boyle Dickinson College , P. of the strahl bear out this prediction.
   During these low den- Sada Universidad de Monterrey are working on this
   sity periods, the angular width of the strahl beam, in the project.
   absence of collisions, became very small and the overall dis- Solar
   Chromosphere Heating. The solar chromosphere tribution function
   extremely anisotropic. The strahl tempera- emits 90% of the net
   radiative loss from the solar atmosphere ture derived from the log
   slope of the energy spectrum was in quiet and non-flaring active
   regions. Therefore the prob- consistent with a coronal temperature,
   indicating the similar- lem of understanding solar atmospheric heating
   is mainly the ity between the strahl spectra at 1AU and that of the
   coronal problem of understanding chromospheric heating. M. Good-
   origin. K. Ogilvie, R. Fitzenreiter, and M. Desch are working man has
   proposed a mechanism for heating plasma in mag- on this project. netic
   flux tubes under solar chromospheric conditions. It is Survey of the
   Electron Strahl, 1995-2000. During 1995, the dissipation of proton
   Pedersen currents driven by the when co-rotating streams were regularly
   observed, the solar convection electric field generated by flow of
   plasma or- wind electron strahl onset was always observed following
   thogonal to the magnetic field. This flow is driven by slow, the stream
   interface, which marks the separation of the inter- longitudinal
   magnetoacoustic waves. It is proposed that this acting flows. The
   strahl was not seen before a stream inter- heating mechanism switches
   on at the height in a flux tube at face, meaning that the strahl does
   not cross the stream inter- which the protons become magnetized, which
   offers an ex- face. Thus it was shown that the strahl was associated
   with planation for the observation that chromospheric heating be-
   co-rotating streams and their sources Ogilvie et al., 1999; gins
   several hundred kilometers above the photosphere. Fitzenreiter et al.,
   1998 . This work will be extended to in- Low Density Solar Wind
   Intervals. I. Richardson, D. Ber- clude all occurrences of the strahl
   from 1995 through 2000, dichevsky, M. Desch, and C. Farrugia conducted
   a ``Survey in order to determine the possible association of the strahl
   of low density solar wind during more than three solar occurrence with
   magnetic clouds and any possible solar cycles'' to compare the low
   density ( 1 cm 3) solar wind cycle dependence. K. Ogilvie and R.
   Fitzenreiter are leading interval of May 1999 to earlier observations.
   They cata- this effort. logued and compared other instances of low
   density solar 2-D MHD Solar Corona and Solar Wind Model. As a wind in
   1965-1999, using data from the NSSDC OMNI da- SOHO Guest Investigator
   Co-I. M. Guhathakurta is P.I. E. 14 ANNUAL REPORT Sittler has been
   developing a semi-empirical 2-D MHD manifestation of the MHD shock
   responsible for the type II model of the solar corona and solar wind
   which generates burst. 3-D spiral pattern built in maps of the
   velocity, effective The CME-Solar Wind Coupling. Using an observed
   rela- temperature and effective heat flux once empirical 2-D maps tion
   between speeds of CMEs near the Sun and in the solar of the density and
   magnetic field are determined. The model wind, N. Gopalswamy, A. Lara,
   R. Lepping, M. Kaiser, D. uses both white light coronagraph data and
   Ulysses plasma Berdichevsky, and O. St Cyr, determined an ``effective''
   ac- and magnetic field data. We have published numerous papers
   celeration acting on the CMEs. They found a linear relation based on
   this model this past year. The model is best repre- between this
   effective acceleration and the initial speed of sentative of solar
   minimum conditions. We are now in the the CMEs. The magnitude of the
   acceleration is similar to process of generalizing the model for solar
   maximum condi- that of the slow solar wind. The average solar wind
   speed tions for which we have incorporated up to 5 current sheets
   naturally divides CMEs into fast and slow ones. Based on the and helmut
   streamers. We have also begun to compare our relation between the
   acceleration and initial speed, they de- effective heat flux profiles
   with other theoretical models that rived an empirical model to predict
   the arrival of CMEs at 1 have predicted heat flux profiles. In this
   area we have begun AU. a collaboration with M. Velli U. of Florence .
   We are also Wind/WAVES Type II Bursts and Solar Eruptions. N. Go-
   working on making the model more self-consistent and using palswamy, M.
   Kaiser, B. Thompson, L. Burlaga, A. Szabo, its effective heat flux in
   the energy equation of 2-D MHD A. Lara, and A. Vourlidas analyzed a
   large number of solar models and multi-fluid models L. Offman, Raytheon
   . So eruptive events that produced radio emission in the far, the
   results are very promising. dekameter-hectometric DH radio window 1-14
   MHz , Type III Radio Bursts as CME Indicators. Considerable newly
   opened by the Wind/WAVES experiment. The distin- progress was made in
   understanding the solar origin of com- guishing characteristics of
   coronal mass ejections CMEs plex type III-like radio bursts observed in
   the Wind/WAVES associated with the DH type II radio bursts are
   larger-than- high-frequency receivers that are associated with the
   solar average width and speed. A majority of the DH type II bursts
   liftoff of CMEs. M. Reiner and M. Kaiser, in collaboration were
   associated with IP shocks and kilometric type II bursts. with
   researchers in the Czech Republic and in Germany, Coronal Dimming, CMEs
   and Type II Radio Bursts. N. demonstrated that these bursts most likely
   originate from the Gopalswamy, M. Kaiser, R. MacDowall, M. Reiner, B.
   Th- acceleration of electrons very low in the solar corona, con-
   ompson, and O. St Cyr revisited the controversial flare- trary to the
   generally accepted view. In another work, M. CME-shock relationship
   using the multiwavelength observa- Reiner and M. Kaiser showed that
   these complex type III- tions of the 1998 April 27 CME associated with
   coronal dimming, an X-class flare and type II radio burst. They like
   bursts were well correlated with geoeffective CMEs and found that the
   coronal dimming observed in X-rays and EUV therefore can be used as a
   first warning of potential space is indeed a CME signature and that the
   CME clearly pre- weather events. cedes the accompanying flare. Solar
   Coronal Shocks. Using the Wind/WAVES radio ob- Near-Sun and Near-Earth
   Manifestations of Solar Erup- servations, a concerted effort was made
   to determine the ori- tions. N. Gopalswamy, A. Lara, M. Kaiser and J -L
   Bougeret gin of coronal shocks that produce metric and decametric
   compared the near-Sun and near-Earth manifestations of so- type II
   radio signatures. M. Reiner and M. Kaiser, in collabo- lar eruptions
   that occurred between November 1994 to June ration with colleagues on
   LASCO and at the Culgoora radio 1998. They compared white CMEs, metric
   type II bursts and telescope,
