http://ohsr.od.nih.gov/guidelines.php3

   Guidelines for the Conduct of Research Involving Human Subjects at the
   National Institutes of Health
   Revised 3/2/95

                               Home Help Admin

   TABLE OF CONTENTS

       1. Introduction
       2. The Historical, Ethical and Legal Foundations for the NIH's
          Policies and Procedures
       3. NIH Policies and Procedures for Protecting Human Subjects: The NIH
          Multiple Project Assurance (MPA)
       4. Responsibilities of Investigators
       5. Responsibilities of the NIH's Institutional Review Boards (IRBs)
       6. Collaborative Research Activities
       7. The Office of Human Subjects Research
       8. Where To Go for Help and Information


   Appendix 1: Historical, Ethical and Legal Foundations for the NIH's
               Policies and Procedures
   Appendix 2: The Ethical Principles of The Belmont Report
   Appendix 3: Flow Chart for How to Proceed with the Review and Approval
               of Research Involving Human Subjects

   1. INTRODUCTION

      The NIH is the Federal Government's primary agency for advancing
      knowledge in the biomedical and behavioral sciences in order to
      understand and treat human diseases. Indeed, it has a long and
      distinguished history of rapidly applying basic scientific discoveries
      in the laboratory to the design and conduct of clinical research at the
      bedside. The NIH has an important obligation to provide leadership, not
      only in scientific discovery, but also in maintaining high ethical
      standards in its research activities, particularly those involving
      human subjects.

      Sound ethical practices go hand in hand with scientifically valid
      research involving human subjects. The NIH assumes that researchers in
      the Intramural Research Program (IRP) share its commitment to high
      quality research that promotes the rights and welfare of research
      subjects. Therefore, it has organized a system of policies and
      procedures to help IRP investigators understand and fulfill their
      responsibilities when they conduct or collaborate in research involving
      humans at the NIH or elsewhere.

      This brochure provides investigators and others in the IRP with
      information about the NIH's policies and procedures for the conduct of
      research involving people.

      2. THE HISTORICAL, ETHICAL AND LEGAL FOUNDATIONS FOR THE NIH'S POLICIES
      AND PROCEDURES REGARDING RESEARCH WITH HUMAN SUBJECTS

      A brief discussion of the historical origins of the NIH's commitment to
      protect the rights and welfare of human research subjects is provided
      in Appendix 1. An appreciation of this historical context is helpful to
      understanding the reasoning behind the NIH's policies and procedures.

      The Belmont Report--Ethical Principles and Guidelines for the
      Protection of Human Subjects provides the philosophical underpinnings
      for current Federal laws governing research involving human subjects.
      The NIH embraces The Belmont Report and holds IRP investigators
      responsible for conducting their research actvities in keeping with its
      principles and guidelines. The Belmont Report establishes three
      fundamental ethical principles that are relevant to all research
      involving human subjects: Respect for Persons, Beneficence, and
      Justice. Appendix 2 provides a more comprehensive discussion of these
      principles and how they are applied to the conduct of research
      involving human subjects.

      Title 45 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 46, Protection of Human
      Subjects (45 CFR Part 46), embodies the ethical principles of The
      Belmont Report. These regulations apply to all research involving human
      subjects conducted or supported by the Intramural Research Program
      (IRP) of the NIH, including involvement by intramural investigators in
      collaborative activities off the NIH campus. Such activities include
      "hands-on" involvement with patients or subjects and also indirect
      involvement, such as analyses of data or human samples (e.g., blood or
      tissue).

      45 CFR Part 46 is not a set of rules that can be applied rigidly to
      make determinations of whether a proposed research activity is
      ethically "right" or "wrong." Rather, these regulations provide a
      framework in which investigators and others can ensure that serious
      efforts have been made to protect the rights and welfare of research
      subjects.

      DHHS's Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) oversees
      implementation of 45 CFR Part 46 in all domestic and foreign
      institutions or sites receiving DHHS funds. OHRP requires each
      institution that conducts or supports research involving human subjects
      to set forth the procedures it will use to protect human subjects in a
      policy statement called an "assurance of compliance," commonly referred
      to as an "assurance." The NIH IRP operates under an OHRP-approved
      Multiple Project Assurance (MPA), copies of which are available from
      the Office of Human Subjects Research (OHSR). This MPA covers all
      research involving human subjects conducted by NIH investigators, or in
      which NIH personnel collaborate, regardless of the site. Failure to
      comply with NIH policies set forth in its MPA can lead to loss of
      research privileges for an individual, a laboratory, or for an entire
      research program.

   3. NIH POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR PROTECTING HUMAN SUBJECTS: THE NIH
   MULTIPLE PROJECT ASSURANCE (MPA)

      Overall responsibility for the NIH's system of protecting human
      subjects rests with the Deputy Director for Intramural Research (DDIR),
      who establishes and implements IRP policies and procedures in accord
      with 45 CFR Part 46. However, protecting the rights and welfare of
      human research subjects is a responsibility that is shared by other NIH
      and Institute, Center and Division (ICD) officials: NIH's Institutional
      Review Boards (IRBs); Laboratory, Branch and Section Chiefs; research
      investigators, and research personnel. Everyone who shares this
      responsibility is expected to be familiar with the NIH MPA.

      The NIH MPA includes policies and procedures regarding: (1) the
      responsibilities of intramural investigators who conduct, support or
      collaborate in basic or clinical research activities involving human
      subjects; (2) the responsibilities of the NIH's IRBs for the review and
      approval of research activities involving human subjects, and (3) the
      responsibilities of the NIH's Office of Human Subjects Research (OHSR)
      in protecting human subjects. These responsibilities are discussed
      below. Copies of the MPA are available in all Laboratory, Branch and
      Section Chiefs' offices and upon request from the OHSR (301-402-3444).

   4. RESPONSIBILITIES OF INVESTIGATORS

      A. DEFINITIONS OF "RESEARCH" AND "HUMAN SUBJECTS" :

      Investigators at the NIH are responsible for protecting the rights and
      welfare of the human subjects who participate in their research. They
      must also understand the ethical standards and regulatory requirements
      governing their research activities. The NIH MPA defines "research" as
      any systematic investigation designed to develop or contribute to
      generalizable knowledge. All intramural investigators who conduct or
      collaborate in a research activity are responsible for knowing whether
      or not their research involves human subjects. A "human subject" is a
      living individual about whom an investigator obtains either (1) data
      through interaction or intervention with the individual, or (2)
      identifiable private information. In many cases, the determination of
      whether a particular research activity involves human subjects is not
      difficult, but in some cases, the line is blurred. When it is not clear
      to an investigator whether research activities involve human subjects,
      he or she is encouraged to seek the advice of others, including
      Section, Laboratory and Branch Chiefs, IRB Chairpersons, or the OHSR.
      In questionable cases, final responsibility for determining whether
      human subjects are involved rests with the OHSR.

      B. SPECIFIC RESEARCH ACTIVITIES THAT ARE NOT SUBJECT TO THE NIH's MPA :

      At the NIH, the following research activities are not subject to the
      requirements of MPA: the collection and study of (1) samples from
      deceased individuals; (2) samples collected for diagnostic purposes
      only; (3) samples or data that are available from commercial or public
      repositories or registries; (4) established cell lines that are
      publicly available to qualified scientific investigators, and (5)
      self-sustaining, cell-free derivative preparations including viral
      isolates, cloned DNA, or RNA. However, investigators should be aware
      that even though research with these types of materials is not covered
      by the MPA, it may be subject to other requirements such as rules
      governing technology transfer.

      C. EXEMPT ACTIVITIES:

      There are six categories of research that, although they involve human
      subjects, are exempt from the requirements of the NIH MPA. These are
      listed in Appendix G of the MPA. One example is the study or collection
      of existing records (e.g., pathological specimens), if these sources
      are publicly available or if the information is recorded by the
      investigator so that subjects cannot be identified directly or through
      identifiers linked to the subjects. Other exemptions include some types
      of research involving taste testing of food, surveys, interviews, use
      of educational tests and observation of public behavior. The general
      rationale behind the six categories of exemption is that although the
      research involves human subjects, it does not expose them to physical,
      social or psychological risks.

      The NIH's Office of Human Subjects Research is authorized to determine
      whether a research activity is exempt from the requirements of the MPA.
      If an intramural investigator thinks his or her research activity fits
      into one of the exempt categories, he or she should fill out the form
      provided by OHSR,*** and OHSR will respond in writing. Investigators
      should not make determinations about exemptions without consulting
      OHSR. Appendix 3 provides a flow chart on how to proceed with the
      review of a proposed research activity.

      D. ELEMENTS OF A RESEARCH PROTOCOL:

      Investigators conducting or collaborating in research involving human
      subjects at the NIH or other domestic or foreign sites must receive
      approval by an Institutional Review Board (IRB) before they begin their
      study (see 5, below). Generally, an investigator provides the IRB with
      a research protocol, which is a written description of, and scientific
      rationale for, the proposed research activity. It includes a discussion
      of the human subject protection issues that are relevant to the study
      and addresses, at a minimum: the risks to subjects; all procedures
      which are experimental; the anticipated benefits to subjects, if any;
      the anticipated number of subjects; the proposed consent document and
      consent process to be used, and appropriate additional safeguards if
      potentially vulnerable subjects are to be enrolled. Potentially
      vulnerable subjects may include the elderly, prisoners, children,
      cognitively impaired individuals, or people who are economically or
      educationally disadvantaged. More information on how to prepare a
      research protocol may be obtained from Laboratory, Branch, and Section
      Chiefs, the OHSR, or the Clinical Center's publication Protomechanics,
      which is available on request from the Clinical Center's Office of
      Communications (301-496-2563).

      *** Call OHSR for form "Request For Review Of Research Activity
      Involving Human Subjects" (301-402-3444)

   5. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NIH'S INSTITUTIONAL REVIEW BOARDS (IRBs)

      Research investigators have a fundamental responsibility to safeguard
      the rights and welfare of the people participating in their research
      activities. In addition, our society has decided by law that an
      objective review of research activities involving human subjects by a
      group of diverse individuals is most likely to protect human subjects
      and promote ethically sound research. IRBs are generally composed of
      members with expertise in science, ethics and other non-scientific
      areas. This diversity fosters a comprehensive approach to safeguarding
      the rights and welfare of subjects. In their deliberations about
      proposed research activities, IRB members should take into account the
      ethical principles of The Belmont Report, the requirements of 45 CFR
      Part 46, and the NIH MPA, as well as the nature and content of the
      proposed research.

      The NIH has IRBs in the following Institutes: NCI (2 IRBs), NIAID,
      NINDS/NIDCD/NIA, NIDDK/NIAMS, NIMH, NEI, NHLBI, NIEHS, NIDR, NIAAA,
      NICHD, NIDA, and NHGRI. The Center for Biologics Evaluation and
      Research (CBER), located on the NIH campus, falls within the purview of
      an IRB of the Food and Drug Administration.

      The IRBs evaluate proposed research activities using the following
      criteria: (1) the design of the study is consistent with sound
      scientific principles and ethical norms; (2) the protocol meets the NIH
      MPA criteria necessary for approval; (3) the necessary elements of
      informed consent have been fulfilled, and (4) additional appropriate
      safeguards have been provided if potentially vulnerable subjects are to
      be studied. In exercising their authority, IRBs may approve, disapprove
      or table research protocols. Most often, the IRB approves a research
      study with required changes, referred to as stipulations. However, IRBs
      are obliged to disapprove any protocol that does not meet the above
      criteria.

      In addition, IRBs conduct continuing review of each approved research
      protocol or activity at least yearly, although an IRB may request
      earlier evaluations or updates if it determines that the research
      presents significant physical, social, or psychological risks to
      subjects. The IRB may modify, suspend, or terminate approval of
      research that has been associated with serious harm to subjects or is
      not being conducted in accord with the NIH MPA or the IRB's decisions,
      stipulations, and requirements.

   6. COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH ACTIVITIES

      Collaboration between intramural investigators and others in the United
      States and abroad is an important and valuable activity which the NIH
      supports and promotes. The following guidelines apply in determining
      whether collaboratve research is covered by the MPA:

             (1) Collaboration exists if the NIH intramural participant
             expects "something in return" as a result of having participated
             in a research activity. "Something in return" could include
             data, authorship on a publication, samples or even patent
             rights. The NIH views authorship as prima facie evidence of
             collaboration.

             (2) Collaborative activities may include but are not limited to:
             the collection of specimens, visits to institutions to perform
             research activities or clinical work, exchange of information
             containing personal identifiers, preliminary data-collection
             activities involving human subjects, and substantive
             intellectual contributions to research techniques, protocol
             design, or interpretation of data. Even remote participation --
             such as supplying important reagents, performing tests, or
             analyzing data -- may constitute collaboration.

      Not all collaborations are defined in advance, and there may be
      subsequent differences of opinion about whether collaboration existed
      or perhaps developed during the course of research activities. In
      unclear cases, investigators should contact their IRB Chair or the
      OHSR. In some cases, further objective third-party review may be
      necessary.

      The requirements of the NIH MPA apply when an intramural investigator
      is collaborating in research activities in which subjects are enrolled
      at non-NIH sites. Such collaborative research activities may require
      negotiation of an OHRP-approved Single Project Assurance (SPA) or
      another appropriate assurance mechanism, as well as review and approval
      by an NIH IRB and an on-site IRB. The latter may be required because
      institutions often draw from culturally dissimilar subject populations,
      or are located in different states or other geographical areas with
      varying ethical, legal, or regulatory requirements for the protection
      of human subjects.

      Guidance on IRB review requirements may be obtained from NIH IRB
      Chairpersons or the OHSR.

   7. THE OFFICE OF HUMAN SUBJECTS RESEARCH (OHSR)

      The OHSR reports to the Deputy Director for Intramural Research (DDIR)
      and was established in 1991 to support the NIH's commitment to conduct
      innovative human subjects research consistent with sound ethical
      standards and regulatory requirements. It is a resource in the
      intramural research community for information and education concerning
      the regulations and guidelines covering research involving human
      subjects, and also serves as the NIH IRP liaison with the OHRP.

      OHSR staff members are available to answer questions, provide
      consultation on the design and conduct of research protocols, and
      participate in educational activities (see the next section).

   8. WHERE TO GO FOR HELP AND INFORMATION

             To obtain a copy of NIH's MPA:

        * Ask your Section, Branch or Laboratory Chief
        * Your IRB's Protocol Contact Person, or
        * Call OHSR (301-402-3444)

   For help to decide if your research involves human subjects:

     * Discuss it with your Section, Branch, or Laboratory Chief,
     * Your IRB Chair,
     * Your Clinical or Scientific Director, or
     * Call OHSR (301-402-3444)

          To determine whether your proposed research activity is exempt
          from the requirements of the NIH MPA:

     * Ask your Section, Branch or Laboratory Chief (or OHSR) for a copy
       of the OHSR form entitled "Request For Review Of Research Activity
       Involving Human Subjects" and send it to the OHSR (Building 10,
       Room 1C-116) for determination of exempt status.

          For assistance in writing a research protocol:

     * Ask your Section, Branch or Laboratory Chief, or
     * Call the Clinical Center's Office of Communications (301-496-2563)
       for a copy of Protomechanics.

          For help in planning a research study with challenging or
          complex ethical or regulatory considerations:

     * Consult your Section, Branch or Laboratory Chief;
     * Your IRB Chair,
     * OHSR, or
     * The Clinical Center's Clinical Bioethics Department (301-496-2429)

          For educational materials or to arrange an educational program:

     * Call OHSR (301-402-3444)

          Other offices located on the NIH campus with interest and
          expertise in ethical and regulatory aspects of human subjects
          research are:

     * The Clinical Center's Clinical Bioethics Department (301-496-2429)
     * The Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP, 301- 496-7005)

   APPENDIX 1

      HISTORICAL, ETHICAL AND LEGAL FOUNDATIONS FOR THE NIH's POLICIES AND
      PROCEDURES

      Concerns about the ethics of the practice of medicine have a long
      history but, until the middle of this century, they were mostly
      centered around the practice of therapeutic medicine, not research
      medicine. In 1946, 23 Nazi physicians went on trial at Nuremberg for
      crimes committed against prisoners of war. These crimes included
      exposure of humans to extremes of temperature, performance of
      mutilating surgery, and deliberate infection with a variety of lethal
      pathogens. During the trial, fundamental ethical standards for the
      conduct of research involving humans were codified into the Nuremberg
      Code, which set forth ten conditions that must be met to justify
      research involving human subjects. The two most important conditions
      were the need for voluntary informed consent of subjects and a
      scientifically-valid research design that could produce fruitful
      results for the good of society.

      The Nuremberg Code was reflected in the Declaration of Human Rights and
      accepted in principle by each of the 51 original signatory nations of
      the Charter of the United Nations. At that time, most countries,
      including the United States, had no mechanism for implementing the
      provisions of the Code. The Clinical Center of the NIH produced the
      first U.S. Federal policy for the protection of human subjects in 1953.
      This policy was consistent with the Nuremberg Code in that it gave
      special emphasis to the protection of healthy, adult research
      volunteers who had little to gain directly from participation in
      research. The Clinical Center's policy was innovative in providing a
      mechanism for prospective review of research by individuals who had no
      direct involvement or intellectual investment in the research. This was
      the beginning of the research review mechanism -- the Institutional
      Review Board -- that is now fundamental to the current system of human
      subject protections throughout the United States.

      In the 1960s Federal funding of clinical research expanded, with a
      concomitant increase in the number of individuals participating as
      subjects. Interest in the rights of research subjects grew not only
      because of a general increase in America's attention to human rights,
      but also because of a number of highly publicized clinical research
      abuses. For example, there were newspaper reports of investigators in
      New York injecting elderly, indigent people with live cancer cells,
      without their consent, in order to learn more about the human immune
      system. Although no apparent harm to subjects occurred, the
      investigators were cited for fraud, deceit, and unprofessional conduct.
      In 1966, Henry Beecher, a highly respected physician-investigator from
      Harvard University, shocked the medical community when he reported that
      unethical or questionably ethical practices were common in the conduct
      of human subjects research in many of America's premier research
      institutions.

      The World Health Organization recognized a need for guidelines that
      were broader in scope than the Nuremberg Code, and The Declaration of
      Helsinki: Recommendations Guiding Medical Doctors in Biomedical
      Research Involving Human Subjects was adopted by the World Medical
      Society in 1964. These guidelines have been revised a number of times,
      most recently in 2000, and currently are in use throughout the world.

      The NIH, under the Directorship of Dr. James Shannon, promoted the
      development of the first Public Health Service Policy on the Protection
      of Human Subjects, issued in 1966. At first, the policy applied to
      extramural activities only, but it was later expanded to cover all
      human subjects research conducted or supported by the Department of
      Health, Education and Welfare (HEW). It required prospective review of
      human subjects research, taking into account the rights and welfare of
      the subjects involved, the appropriateness of the methods used to
      secure informed consent, and the risks and potential benefits of the
      research. The elements of informed consent included the requirement
      that consent be documented and signed by subjects or their
      representatives.

      Several events in the early 1970s led to renewed and intense efforts in
      the United States to protect human subjects. Most notable was the
      revelation that, since the 1930s, approximately four hundred black men
      in Tuskegee, Alabama, had been involved, without their knowledge, in a
      lengthy study (the Tuskegee Syphilis Study) on the natural history of
      syphilis. These men were systematically denied penicillin even after
      its introduction as the standard treatment for the disease. The Senate
      Committee on Labor and Human Resources held hearings on this study and
      on other alleged health care abuses of prisoners and children. The
      outcomes of these hearings were: (1) enactment of the National Research
      Act of 1974 requiring HEW to codify its policy for the protection of
      human subjects into Federal regulations, which it did in 1974; (2)
      formation of the National Commission for the Protection of Human
      Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research, and (3) imposition of a
      moratorium on research conducted or supported by HEW involving live
      human fetuses until the National Commission could study and make
      recommendations on it.

      The National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of
      Biomedical and Behavioral Research, which functioned from 1974-1978,
      evaluated the existing HEW system, recommended improvements to the
      Secretary, HEW, and issued reports on research involving pregnant
      women, live human fetuses, prisoners, children, the mentally disabled
      and the use of psychosurgery. It also issued The Belmont Report:
      Ethical Principles and Guidelines for the Protection of Human Subjects
      of Research. A major advancement in the development of public policy,
      The Belmont Report provided guidance for distinguishing therapeutic
      medicine from research, identified three fundamental ethical principles
      for the protection of human subjects, and illustrated how the ethical
      principles should be applied to the conduct of human subjects research
      (see Appendix 2).

      In 1979, HEW began the process of revising the 1974 regulations but it
      was not until 1981 that final Department (renamed the Department of
      Health and Human Services -- DHHS) approval was given to Title 45, Code
      of Federal Regulations, Part 46, Protection of Human Subjects (45 CFR
      46). Initially these regulations were applicable only when research was
      conducted or supported by DHHS, but in June 1991, 45 CFR Part 46 was
      revised and became the basic policy that now governs all federally
      supported research.

   APPENDIX 2

      THE ETHICAL PRINCIPLES OF THE BELMONT REPORT

      The Belmont Report--Ethical Principles and Guidelines for the
      Protection of Human Subjects, which was published in 1979, provides the
      philosophical underpinnings for the current laws governing human
      subjects research. Unlike the Nuremberg Code and the Helsinki
      Declaration, which consist of "guidances" or "rules", The Belmont
      Report establishes three fundamental ethical principles that are
      relevant to all research involving human subjects: Respect for Persons,
      Beneficence, and Justice. Although other important principles sometimes
      apply to research, these three provide a comprehensive framework for
      ethical decision-making in research involving human subjects.

      1. The principle of Respect for Persons acknowledges the dignity and
             autonomy of individuals, and requires that people with
             diminished autonomy be provided special protection. This
             principle requires that subjects give informed consent to
             participation in research. Because of their potential
             vulnerability, certain subject populations are provided with
             additional protections. These include live human fetuses,
             children, prisoners, the mentally disabled, and people with
             severe illnesses.

             2. The principle of Beneficence requires us to protect
             individuals by maximizing anticipated benefits and minimizing
             possible harms. Therefore, it is necessary to examine carefully
             the design of the study and its risks and benefits including, in
             some cases, identifying alternative ways of obtaining the
             benefits sought from the research. Research risks must always be
             justified by the expected benefits of research.

             3. The principle of Justice requires that we treat subjects
             fairly. For example, subjects should be carefully and equitably
             chosen to insure that certain individuals or classes of
             individuals -- such as prisoners, elderly people, or financially
             impoverished people -- are not systematically selected or
             excluded, unless there are scientifically or ethically valid
             reasons for doing so. Also, unless there is careful
             justification for an exception, research should not involve
             persons from groups that are unlikely to benefit from subsequent
             applications of the research.

      Each of these principles carries strong moral force, and difficult
      ethical dilemmas arise when they conflict. A careful and thoughtful
      application of the principles of The Belmont Report will not always
      achieve clear resolution of ethical problems. However, it is important
      to understand and apply the principles, because doing so helps to
      assure that people who agree to be experimental subjects will be
      treated in a respectful and ethical manner.

   APPENDIX 3

      Flow Chart For How To Proceed With The Review And Approval Of Research
      Involving Human Subjects

                                   [fchart2.gif]

                               Home Help Admin
