http://www.lpsi.barc.usda.gov/idrl/

   USDA Logo and link to USDA homepage Immunology and Disease Resistance
                                       Laboratory Logo (IDRL) logo

   Home button
   Mission Statement button
   Staff button
   Research Projects button
   Publications button
   Comments button
   Links button
   ARS logo and link to ARS homepage
   Agricultural Research Service
   U.S. Department of Agriculture

   If your browser had javascript enabled, you would see the navigation
   buttons change color when you roll the mouse over them

Welcome

   The mission of the Immunology and Disease Resistance Laboratory is to
   improve the safety and health of farm animals and consumers by
   protecting animals and the environment against parasitic infections and
   mastitis. IDRL is part of the Animal and Natural Resources Institute
   (formerly the Livestock and Poultry Sciences Institute) at the
   Beltsville Agricultural Research Center.

IDRL Research in the News!
IDRL Awards!

IDRL Research Links...


   Picture of parasite-infected tissue above Parasites & Diseases section
   Parasites & Diseases
   [Select a link_]If your browser had javascript enabled, you would see a
   selectable navigation menu for the Parasites and Diseases research
   section.
   Picture of purified parasites above Immunology section
   Immunology
   [Select a link]If your browser had javascript enabled, you would see a
   selectable navigation menu for the Immunology research section.
   Picture of ARS researchers with cattle above Genetics section
   Genetics
   [Select a link]If your browser had javascript enabled, you would see a
   selectable navigation menu for the Genetics research section.

                     Dr. Joan K. Lunney, Research Leader

       Building 1040, Room 107 Beltsville Agricultural Research Center
                   United States Department of Agriculture
                        Agricultural Research Service
                           10300 Baltimore Avenue
                       Beltsville, Maryland 20705-2350

                             Tel: (301) 504-8201
                             Fax: (301) 504-5306

                    Judy Sirk, Support Services Assistant
                  Ruth Flester, Office Automation Assistant
                This site was last updated December 18, 2001
            If you experience technical problems with this site,
                     please send an email to: R. Palmer
                                 THANK YOU!
