http://monitor.nos.noaa.gov/education/index.html

                          Monitor Education Program

   Because the Monitor is located 16 miles off the coast in 230 feet of
   water, it is not possible to take visitors to the Monitor. Therefore,
   the major goal of the education program is developing programs and
   products that bring the Monitor to the public. This is being done
   through a variety of means, including materials such as brochures,
   posters, publications, slide and video programs, and public
   presentations and professional papers on the value of the Monitor as a
   national marine sanctuary and as a significant historic vessel. Now the
   Internet is making this information available quickly and easily
   through the World Wide Web.
   A second goal of the Sanctuary education program is to enhance
   understanding of the natural and man-made processes that affect the
   Monitor. This is accomplished through development of a variety of
   products geared to the general public, and to elementary, middle, and
   high school students.
   Products designed to reach specific interest groups, including
   fishermen and sport divers, have been developed as a means of providing
   current information on research, regulations and policy decisions and
   to promote preservation of the Monitor. We also maintain contact with
   the professional community to share information on current shipwreck
   research that may have application to preservation of the Monitor.
   To promote widespread interpretation and display of Monitor-related
   artifacts and research materials sanctuary staff, in cooperation with
   The Mariners' Museum and other museums, develop traveling exhibits and
   displays on various aspects of the Monitor National Marine Sanctuary.
   We also provide material including documents, photographs, slides and
   video tapes to museums, educational institutions, and public and
   private organizations desiring to develop Monitor-related displays or
   exhibits.
   To promote the use of Monitor-related education products we work with
   educators in school systems, museums, and institutions of higher
   learning to identify Monitor products that can reach large numbers of
   students and that have diverse appeal. We also work with The Mariners'
   Museum Education Division and other maritime museums utilize
   Monitor-related products in ways that stimulate interest in the
   Monitor, the National Marine Sanctuary Program, and cultural and
   natural resources.
   To enhance understanding of the diversity of marine life inhabiting the
   Monitor National Marine Sanctuary, we have developed displays and
   exhibits that describe the Monitor as an artificial reef. We also work
   with marine biologists to maintain an updated list of marine life at
   the site.
   Another major goal of the education program is to maintain the Monitor
   Collection of research data currently curated by The Mariners' Museum.
   To this end, cataloging research data, NOAA papers, and material from
   other agencies and individuals involved in Monitor-related activities
   is an ongoing project. Sanctuary staff solicits donations of
   Monitor-related material from all sources.
   Because the Monitor National Marine Sanctuary is one of twelve national
   marine sanctuaries in the Sanctuaries and Reserves Division of NOAA,
   the education program promotes understanding of the National Marine
   Sanctuary Program. National Marine Sanctuary Program material is
   included in mailings of Monitor information and as part of public
   programs and presentations on the Monitor National Marine Sanctuary.
   Specific education products include:
   Paper model
   This color model is designed for children at the third-grade level and
   above. It is an easily-assembled model with supplemental information
   about the Monitor and the Monitor National Marine Sanctuary. The model
   is available to school systems and for use in workshops at The
   Mariners' Museum and other museums.
   Brochure
   This illustrated color brochure includes history, site location,
   regulations, and general information about the Monitor National Marine
   Sanctuary.
   Cheesebox
   This periodic activity report is written for a general audience and
   contains current information on Monitor-related activities including
   on-site research, exhibits, management issues, and historical notes.
   Poster
   The new Sanctuary poster is a dramatic underwater photograph showing a
   diver at the stern of the Monitor. Use of the photo was generously
   granted by the photographer, Gary Gentile.
   Curriculum
   Monitor sanctuary staff worked with the Education Division of The
   Mariners' Museum and educators from local school systems to develop
   curriculum on the Monitor for use in history and science classes. The
   curriculum targets grade 7 but will be expanded to include units for
   middle and high schools. A 15-minute narrated video on the history of
   the Monitor and the Monitor National Marine Sanctuary is included in
   the curriculum.
   Outreach kit
   The outreach kit can be used with the curriculum (above) or alone. It
   contains a wealth of information about the Monitor and the Monitor
   National Marine Sanctuary. It includes brochures, posters,
   publications, and other printed material. It also includes
   reproductions of artifacts recovered from the wreck of the Monitor, a
   reproduction of an officer's uniform, photographs of the Monitor and
   the wreck, and reproductions of items that would have been used by the
   Monitor's crew.
   Special events
   In cooperation with The Mariners' Museum, sanctuary staff have
   developed concepts for a variety of Monitor-related events. Several
   "Monitor Days" are held at the museum during the year and include
   costumed interpreters and period music.
   Traveling exhibit
   A traveling exhibit detailing the sinking of the Monitor , the
   discovery of the wreck in 1973, and current on-site research has been
   developed by the North Carolina Maritime Museum in Beaufort, North
   Carolina through a NOAA Grant. This exhibit has traveled throughout
   North Carolina and has been displayed at a NOAA facility in Silver
   Spring, Maryland; the Smithsonian Institution; and the San Diego
   Maritime Museum.
   Comprehensive bibliography
   This is an ongoing effort that will result in a bibliography of
   Monitor-related material, with periodic supplements. It will consist of
   primary and secondary sources, including news articles, papers,
   articles, and monographs. The bibliography will be published in 1997
   with supplements approximately every four years.
   Public presentations
   As logistically and financially feasible, sanctuary staff present
   programs on the Monitor National Marine Sanctuary to professional
   meetings, special interest groups, public service organizations,
   educational institutions, and at special events.
   A list of education products, including publications, video and slide
   programs, brochures, posters, and other materials is available upon
   request. This list is distributed in information packages, as part of
   presentations and programs on the Monitor , and to contacts within
   school systems for history, science, and related courses of study. A
   list of resources for classroom use is also available upon request.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Back to Monitor National Marine Sanctuary homepage
