http://www.lbl.gov/Publications/Currents/Archive/index.html

   [currents-banner.gif]
   [clear.gif] [bd15132_.gif] January 25, 2002 [bd15132_.gif] Search the
   Currents Archive [clear.gif]


      Berkeley Lab Gets Top DOE Rating
      The Disorderly Conduct Of Superconductors

        New Video Service Brings Presentations to Your Desktop
        Washington Report
        Catalan Officials Take Interest in Berkeley Lab Science
        Education News California Must Expand UC Graduate Enrollment
        New Head of ISS
        Hand-Held Radiation Detector Could Outsmart Terrorists
        ALS Researchers Win AAASs Oldest Prize
        Open House This Fall Volunteers Needed
        Foreshadowing Granular Superconductivity
        Breast Cancer Forum Focuses on Bissells Research
        Be Part of Currents!
        Bulletin Board
        Calendar
        EH&S Classes February 2002
        AIM Computer Classes: Jan. March
        Flea Market
        Flea Market Policy
        __________________________________________________________________

   Berkeley Lab Gets Top DOE Rating

      By Ron Kolb


   [XBD9812_03261_03.jpg]

      For the third consecutive year and with its highest overall grade ever
      Berkeley Lab has been rated outstanding for both the quality of its
      science and the level of its support services by the Department of
      Energy.

      The annual review of Lab performance by the DOE and the University of
      California Office of the President (UCOP) yielded superior marks in
      every category of assessment. The overall grade of 92.3 (on a scale of
      100) for FY01 was the highest ever achieved by Berkeley Lab since the
      institution of performance-based standards and measures in 1992.

      The report validates the hard work of our scientists and our
      administrative staff, said Laboratory Director Charles Shank. Every
      individual at this laboratory should take pride in this rating and
      accept my personal appreciation for jobs well done.

      Deputy Director for Operations Sally Benson noted that, for the first
      time, the cumulative administrative and operations scores from DOE
      reached the outstanding level that science and technology achieved over
      the past four years. It shows that DOE and UC believe that we are
      delivering the services that our research needs to maintain a quality
      enterprise, she added.

      The UCOP figures, developed as part of the contractual obligation for
      assessment known as Appendix F, were similar to those reported by DOE.
      Office of the President representative Buck Koonce, the executive
      director for Laboratory Operations, called it an outstanding story for
      Berkeley Lab and the culmination of several years of improvements and
      successes. He referred to the Labs maturing systems and said that, in
      many areas, it is a model for other labs in the DOE complex.

      In a review last week of the final assessment, Koonce pointed to
      several highlights that contributed to the Labs high scientific rating.
      Major initiatives such as the Supernova Acceleration Probe, the
      Molecular Foundry, and the Energy Efficiency and Electric Reliability
      Lab were called out for special mention. He also noted facility
      upgrades at the Advanced Light Source and the National Energy Research
      Scientific Computing Center.

      Research successes included the confirmation of charge-parity (CP)
      violation at the B Factory of the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center,
      the observation of neutrino oscillations at the Sudbury Neutrino
      Observatory, the world-record resolution below one angstrom at the
      National Center for Electron Microscopy, and the invention of the
      energy-efficient Berkeley Lamp.

      Nine different functions were rated on the administration and
      operations side, with all deemed outstanding or excellent:

      Environmental Restoration and Waste Management was cited for effective
      operations, reductions in unit costs, and innovative remediation and
      assessment technologies. Koonce called the completion of all
      restoration goals as a huge milestone for the site clean-up program.

      Environment, Health and Satefy received major recognition for the
      successful implementation of the verified Integrated Safety Management
      (ISM) system and for its record in worker health exposures, accident
      prevention, and incident tracking. No reportable environmental releases
      or regulatory violations occurred in FY01.
        * Facilities Management was rated outstanding for the fifth straight
          year. Especially noteworthy was the management of three projects
          radio communication system upgrades, installation of a new electric
          generator, and the ion accelerator for the Spallation Neutron
          Source. Maintenance, utility service, and property management were
          also commended.
        * Financial Management earned high marks in customer satisfaction,
          budget tracking, monthly funds controls, and employee skills
          development. Costs per payroll transaction were among the lowest
          compared to national benchmarks.
        * Human Resources showed the greatest improvement over prior years,
          earning its first outstanding score from UCOP reviewers. Efforts in
          recruitment, compensation, labor relations, and delivery of
          benefits information were especially called out.
        * Information Management earned top grades for cost savings and
          efficiency in telephone services, customer service in computing
          support, and regulatory compliance.
        * Procurement performed admirably within a highly regulated
          environment, Koonce said, and improved its cycle time for
          transactions to 6.4 days, one of the best in the contractor
          complex. Customer satisfaction was also high.
        * Property Management has improved dramatically over the last two
          years, said Koonce, and is now rated excellent and features 100
          percent accuracy of property identification and 100 percent of new
          property assigned within 60 days.
        * Laboratory Management was cited for strategic and tactical
          planning, maintaining strong core competencies, sound cost
          management, positive community relations and communications
          efforts, and a commitment to diversity awareness and improvement.

      Koonce also noted several challenges facing the Lab, including the
      continuing issue of decontaminating the Bevatron for other uses,
      maintaining an open scientific environment in the context of higher
      security requirements, and preparing for renewal of the management
      contract for Berkeley Lab with DOE.

      Benson mentioned one more challenge as a follow-up to the Laboratorys
      lofty performance grades: What do we do next? What do we need to do to
      jump to the next level of performance? We have to look at this
      [assessment process] in different ways. For example, what does it mean
      to be a location of choice for new scientific opportunities? We need to
      strive to be the best place in the world to carry out scientific
      research. We should create a balanced set of measures that evaluates
      systems-performance and emphasizes efficiency and cost-effectiveness.
      We need to move to more flexible management approaches that encourage
      innovation and improvement, while providing the appropriate level of
      assurance to DOE that we are good stewards of the public resources
      entrusted to us.

                     DOE Performance Scores for FY 1997 - 2001

                                 [DOE_Scores.jpg]

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   The Disorderly Conduct of Superconductors

   Atom by atom, researchers track down
   granularity in a high-temp superconductor

      By Paul Preuss

      The high-temperature (high-Tc) superconductors are notable for their
      many electronic phases, which shift according to the temperature and
      degree of doping of each material. Phases like superconductivity and
      insulation have been compared to physical phases like liquid water and
      ice, or chemical phases like oil and vinegar. But can electronic phases
      exist side by side on the atomic scale?

      Some theorists say yes. Still, the granular nature of superconductivity
      in underdoped copper-oxide superconductors is controversial. Now Séamus
      Davis of Berkeley Labs Materials Sciences Division, a professor of
      physics at UC Berkeley, has used scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) to
      make the first-ever nanometer-scale maps of granular superconductivity
      in a high-Tc superconductor.

      Davis and his colleagues verified their discovery with a second
      innovative use of STM: employing individual nickel atoms as probes to
      distinguish superconducting from nonsuperconducting regions in the
      material, a copper-oxide compound called Bi-2212.

      In underdoped Bi-2212 we found nanoscale grains of apparent
      superconductivity embedded in an electronically distinct background,
      says Davis. Although this background state appears to be
      nonsuperconducting, macroscopic superconductivity may still occur
      through Josephson tunneling, a quantum-mechanical phenomenon.

      The Davis group showed that even a high-Tc superconductor with
      essentially perfect crystal structure can exhibit granular
      superconductivity, its regions of superconductivity spatially separated
      from one another. Reported this week in Nature, the results may
      radically change how scientists think about all similar
      superconductors.

      The difference that doping makes

      All the highest-temperature superconductors found so far are cuprate
      ceramics, with layers of copper and oxygen sandwiched between layers of
      other atoms like bismuth. The cuprates are normally insulators, but
      some become superconducting if they are doped with other atoms. For
      example, additional oxygen can introduce positive charges or holes into
      the copper-oxygen layers.

   [XBD200201_00044_02%20.jpg]
   Séamus Davis is shown with the scanning tunneling microscope he and his
   group used to create gapmaps of superconducting domains only 3
   nanometers in diameter (below).

   [nanograins.jpg]

      A cuprate achieves its highest-temperature transition to the
      superconducting state with just the right amount of doping, different
      for each compound. When the cuprate is underdoped, theoreticians have
      predicted that a phenomenon called frustrated electronic phase
      separation (FEPS) could occur: regions of the sample could develop
      different electronic phases even though they are separated from each
      other by mere nanoscale distances.

      One form of FEPS is the proposed stripe phase, in which charge carriers
      are thought to flow along one-dimensional lines like rivers through
      insulating regions. Another possibility is that superconducting domains
      are separated like islands in an insulating sea, says Davis; this could
      give rise to the kind of electronic granularity his group observed
      directly.

      Maps of gaps

      Daviss group cleaved perfect single crystals of B-2212, which split
      cleanly along the bismuth-oxygen plane lying immediately over the
      copper-oxygen plane. Their scanning tunneling microscope was able to
      image individual atoms in the plane; in ultra-high vacuum at very low
      temperature, the electronic states of the underlying copper-oxygen
      plane could also be sensed.

      As the probe scanned over the plane it measured differences in the
      current reaching the tip, a function of the voltage between the tip and
      the surface. Two kinds of regions of different conductance were
      revealed: alpha regions exhibited relatively small energy gaps, typical
      of superconductivity; beta regions had larger gaps.

      From these spectral scans, gap-maps were constructed showing that, in
      the underdoped crystal, the alpha regions were roughly circular areas
      less than three nanometers (billionths of a meter) across, separated
      from one another and surrounded by narrow beta regions approximately
      two nanometers wide.

      One question we couldnt answer with the initial STM spectra was whether
      the alpha regions really were superconducting, says Davis. But we had
      recently developed a new atomic-scale tool, one wed already used to
      study magnetic impurities in superconductors, that could address this
      question.

      Nickel atoms introduced into the copper-oxygen planes of Bi-2212 stand
      out because of the orientation of their surrounding clouds of charge:
      cross shapes reveal the density of negative charges electrons and x
      shapes that of positive charges holes (see Currents, Sept. 21, 2001).
      These patterns, or resonances, result when the impurity atom scatters
      entities known as quasiparticles.

      Quasiparticle symmetry holds the key

      Quasiparticles, which can be thought of as unpaired charge carriers, do
      not participate directly in superconductivity. Superconductivity is
      carried by pairs (Cooper pairs) of either electrons or holes;
      superconductivity in Bi-2212 and most other high-Tc superconductors is
      carried by holes.

      Quasiparticles too may be either particle-like or hole-like. An overall
      balance, or symmetry, between the particle-like and hole-like
      quasiparticle resonances created by impurity atoms is a requirement of
      local superconductivity.

      Particle-hole symmetry of an impurity resonance indicates the
      superconducting state, says Davis. It is predicted to decrease in other
      states and may disappear altogether in nonsuperconducting regions.

      The Davis team surveyed B-2212 crystals a second time with the STM,
      this time looking not for energy gaps but for the cross- and x-shaped
      resonances that were signatures of the individual nickel atoms they had
      introduced into the sample signposts of the superconducting state. They
      found nickel impurities in alpha regions but none in beta regions.

      A likely explanation is that nickel atoms are indeed present in other
      regions. But because these are not superconducting, there is no
      symmetrical particle-hole scattering to reveal the nickel impurities,
      Davis says.

      Together, these two new STM techniques high-resolution spectral surveys
      and the use of impurity resonances as local markers of
      superconductivity not only show that superconductivity is segregated
      into discrete domains in underdoped B-2212, but also strongly suggest
      granular superconductivity due to frustrated electronic phase
      separation.

      Since the domains are so close together, Davis says, quantum-mechanical
      Josephson tunneling across the nonsuperconducting regions that separate
      them is probably what supports the long-range superconducting
      properties of this material.

      Kristine Lang, Vidya Madhavan, and Joan Hoffman are current members of
      the Davis group. Former member Eric Hudson is a National Research
      Council fellow at the National Institute of Standards and Technology.
      Shin-ichi Uchida, Daviss principal collaborator, is professor of
      physics at Tokyo University; he and his colleague Hiroshi Eisaki made
      essential materials available. Their article, Using impurity atoms to
      search for granular superconductivity in underdoped
      Bi2Sr2CaCu2O8+delta, appears in the Jan. 24, 2002 issue of Nature.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   New Video Service Brings
   Presentations to Your Desktop

      By Ron Kolb

   [turchie_video.jpg]
   Terry Turchies counterterrorism presentation was the first one made
   available for web viewing using the Labs new video service.

      A new software technology now available at Berkeley Lab allows for the
      real-time recording of lectures and presentations for easy and
      high-quality web viewing. Within minutes of the recording, the
      high-quality audio and video are synchronized with the presenters
      PowerPoint slides and posted online.

      The system has been designed to make lectures and meeting presentations
      accessible to a broad audiences in a simulation of live production. The
      software aligns the video of the speaker with the accompanying slides,
      which are displayed digitally at high resolution. Each slides text data
      is then gathered to form an outline of the slide content. The viewer
      can skip to any point within the presentation, without having to watch
      the entire streaming video to find a particular segment.

      The service is offered by the Technical and Electronic Information
      (TEID) and Information Technology Services (ITSD) departments. An
      example of the systems capabilities is the Jan. 10 lecture by Terry
      Turchie on How to Catch Terrorists. It can be viewed on TEIDs Video
      Services website,
      (http://www-library.lbl.gov/teid/tmVideo/aboutus/VideoDefault.htm;
      click on Online  Presentations). Within an hour after Turchie completed
      his talk in the Building 50 auditorium, the entire presentation was
      posted online.

      The system utilizes RealMedia, the Labs standard streaming player.

      The technology also features a searchable database of keywords from
      each presentation an alternate route to finding specific content within
      a talk. Plans are in place to archive presentations by division or
      project.

      We anticipate this new service will provide a convenient way for Lab
      users and the public to view educational, institutional and information
      content conveniently and efficiently, enabling a more effective and
      far-reaching distribution of Lab resources, said Jane Tierney, TEID
      department head.

      TEIDs Video Service Group lead, Ellen Seidler (X4237) can provide
      estimates for recording and web posting of events. Lectures posted on
      the web are kept online for access by anyone with a web browser
      configured for RealMedia playback. In addition, TEID can design
      programs to facilitate the receipt of credit for training, or to
      provide lists of those who have viewed the presentations online.

      For further information, please contact Jane Tierney at X4400.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Foreshadowing Granular Superconductivity

      We had this prediction from looking at clues, like Sherlock Holmes. And
      then Séamus goes out and actually sees the culprit

      The spectacular electromagnetic effects displayed by superconductors
      arise because charge carriers (electrons or holes) are bound together
      in Cooper pairs to form a condensate, with all particles in the same
      quantum state. Not every particle finds a partner, however. Unpaired
      particles are described as quasiparticles, whose properties include
      finite lifetimes.

      The standard picture of superconductor electrodynamics is the two-fluid
      model, in which the medium behaves as a superconducting fluid a
      superfluid of Cooper pairs, which is permeated by a normal fluid
      consisting of quasiparticles, explains Joseph Orenstein, a staff
      scientist in the Materials Sciences Division and a professor of physics
      at UC Berkeley.

      Quasiparticles are difficult to study in superconductors; to measure
      their electrical properties versus that of the condensate, Orenstein
      used alternating rather than direct current.

      Because the condensate has mass, alternating current repeatedly
      accelerates and decelerates the charge carriers. There is no
      resistance, but unlike direct current there is a measurable electric
      field and voltage. Current contributed by the normal fluid encounters
      resistance, just as in a normal metal, which is related to
      quasiparticle lifetimes.

      To set up ac current in a sample of BSCCO, Orenstein used time-domain
      terahertz spectroscopy, with frequencies between microwaves and the far
      infrared. He measured the intensity, amplitude, and phase of the wave
      that passed through the sample.

      The signature of the condensate appears as an out-of-phase component in
      the waveform, he says, but because quasiparticles respond in phase with
      the terahertz radiation, they leave a distinct signature in the altered
      waveform.

      The measurements produced a startling result: the two-fluid model
      seemed to fail. The two-fluid model suggests that when you cool a
      superconductor down, you expect the normal charge carriers to convert
      to superconducting pairs, Orenstein says. Resistance should go down
      while the screening component, a signature of the condensate, should go
      up. In BSCCO, both increased.

      The only plausible explanation was that superconducting properties were
      not uniform throughout the sample. It was an extreme idea, and I never
      thought anybody would believe it. I spent most of a summer worrying
      about it.

      When Séamus Davis learned of the results, he set out to look for actual
      spatial variations in the conductive properties of BSCCOs
      superconducting layers and found them. Says Orenstein, We had this
      prediction from looking at clues, like Sherlock Holmes. And then Séamus
      goes out and actually sees the culprit.

      For details about Orensteins research, visit
      http://www.lbl.gov/Science-Articles/Archive/MSD-granular-Orenstein.html
      .

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Washington Report

   DOE Rebuts Critical GAO Report

      Deputy Energy Secretary Francis Blake has issued a sharp rebuttal to a
      report from the General Accounting Office that criticized DOEs efforts
      to reform its operations.

      GAOs identification of DOEs diverse missions as a fundamental cause of
      past problems is as simplistic as it is wrong, Blake said in a public
      letter to GAO. The GAO report also fails to understand key facts about
      the department and Secretary of Energy Spencer Abrahams actions in
      improving its management.

      The GAO report on DOE management was requested by Rep. Sonny Callahan
      (R-Ala), chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy
      and Water Development, and Rep. Pete Visclosky (D-Ind), the
      subcommittees ranking member. GAO is the investigative arm of Congress.
      The report was especially critical of DOEs management of its national
      laboratory system, citing problems with construction delays, cost
      overruns, and wasted spending, despite the departments pledge in 1995
      to initiate wide-ranging reforms.

      DOEs management weaknesses and resulting performance problems continue
      to erode public confidence in the department and its contractors, the
      report said. DOEs national laboratories are crucial to its mission and
      performance yet the agency has not been able to develop a single
      strategic plan that integrates its vast laboratory network. The
      laboratories, particularly the multi-program ones, operate largely as
      separate entities. DOE has no central program control over the
      laboratories, but has instead required that each report to a lead
      headquarters program office since 1999.

      The report concluded that Certain DOE missions might be managed better
      if located elsewhere, either combined with other federal agencies that
      have similar responsibilities or delegated to the private sector.

      In response, Blake said this diverse range of activities, different
      cultures, and management styles is an advantage.

      To suggest that the entities within a cabinet department must have a
      common culture is mistaken and would lose the value that a department
      gains from different perspectives and functions. In fact, DOEs labs
      benefit from their diversity through their ability to play off each
      others strengths in tackling scientific challenges.

      What is important, said Blake, is that DOE ensure that its laboratories
      are performing the right tasks, are executing them properly and are
      held accountable for the results. This he argued, is now being done and
      progress is being made towards further improvements.

      The GAO report Department of Energy: Fundamental Reassessment Needed to
      Address Major Mission, Structure and Accountability Problems can be
      read at http://www.gao.gov/. — Lynn Yarris

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Catalan Officials Take Interest in Berkeley Lab Science


   [XBD200201_00020_13.jpg]

      Ramon Pascual (right), science advisor to Catalonia President Jordi
      Pujol (center), talks with Berkeley Lab Deputy Director Pier Oddone
      during a tour of the Advanced Light Source. The two Catalan leaders
      were part of an entourage of officials and press representatives from
      that country who visited the Laboratory on Jan. 15. Their visit was
      part of a Bay Area swing during which they observed various research
      and development programs that have been instrumental in building the
      California economy. Catalonia, an independent state of the nation of
      Spain, is looking to emulate some of the successful programs here,
      including some at the Advanced Light Source, in areas such as
      nanotechnology and energy efficiency.

      In his written welcome to Pujol, Energy Secretary Spencer Abraham
      encouraged Catalonia to "explore joint research and collaboration
      initiatives in the near future" with the U.S. He cited Berkeley Lab and
      the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center as "pioneers" in the development
      of new technologies and scientific applications. — Photo by Robert
      Couto

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Education News

   California Must Expand UC Graduate Enrollment

      To serve the states needs by 2010, the University of California must
      boost systemwide graduate student enrollment by at least 11,000, or
      nearly 50 percent, and increase support for individual graduate
      students, according to the conclusions of a university commission
      appointed by UC Board of Regents Chairman S. Sue Johnson and UC
      President Richard C. Atkinson.

      California is one of only five states whose graduate enrollment
      declined during the last decade, the commission reported, and rated
      last among the 15 largest states in graduate enrollment.

      In a knowledge-based economy where advanced education is at a premium,
      the fact that the University of California is lagging so dramatically
      in graduate enrollments is an issue that simply must be addressed,
      Atkinson said. If we hope to maintain the states supremacy in such
      fields as biotechnology and electronics, create new industries not yet
      imagined, and solve Californias pressing social and environmental
      problems, we need a highly educated workforce and that means expanded
      graduate enrollments.

      In order to meet the needs of the huge increase expected in
      undergraduate enrollment, the commission noted, the state will need to
      hire an estimated 40,000 new faculty during the coming decade. And
      Californias colleges will depend on graduates from UCs doctoral
      programs for many of these positions.

      The commissioners cautioned, however, that to achieve these goals, UC
      will need to increase funding by about 50 percent, and they estimated
      that UC will face a $65 million shortfall.

      NSF To Launch New Math and Science Ed Initiative

      The National Science Foundation (NSF) has announced a new $160 million
      program to improve math and science education in the nations elementary
      and secondary schools. The program is intended to create partnerships
      between university scientists and local school districts. It follows
      the educational views espoused by President Bush that university
      scientists should help bolster the skills of undergraduates preparing
      to become teachers and mentor professional school teachers who seek
      additional training.

      Its going to take years and years for low-scoring U.S. students to
      become number one in the world, and there are no magic bullets, says
      Judith Ramaley, who directs NSFs $975 million educational component.
      This is still a research initiative.

      Ramaley expects this new NSF program to grow significantly over the
      next several years and become NSFs flagship education effort.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   New Head of ISS

      Starting Jan. 7, Diana Brown, formerly of UC Berkeley, joined the Lab
      as the new head of the Information Systems and Services  (ISS)
      Department in the Information Technologies and Services Division.

      I believe that ITs mission is to deliver information technology
      solutions that will help its customers succeed in their operations, and
      that strong partnership between IT and its customers are key to the
      success of IT projects, she said. To enhance that partnership, I plan
      to visit the major customers of ISS services, so we can get their
      feedback. From that, we'll create a baseline on ISS performance so we
      can further improve our service.

      On campus, Brown served as director of Administrative Systems. She
      started her career at the Bechtel Group, where she first worked with
      her new Lab colleagues, Carl Eben and Rosemary Evanoff. She worked for
      Bank of America briefly before moving on to UC Berkeley, where she
      spent the last 15 years.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Hand-Held Radiation Detector
   Could Outsmart Terrorists

      By Dan krotz

      Long before September 11, Berkeley Lab engineers, in collaboration with
      researchers at Lawrence Livermore and Los Alamos National Laboratories,
      have been working to outsmart terrorists attempting to smuggle
      radioactive material into the country.

      Their solution is Cryo3, a 10-pound, battery-powered detector that
      promises to bring state-of-the-art radiation spectrometry anywhere
      radioactive materials are found.

      The innovation is coupling a germanium radiation detector with a small,
      low-power cryogenic cooling mechanism originally designed for the
      aerospace industry, says Lorenzo Fabris of the Labs Engineering
      Division. This offers extremely high-resolution radiation analysis in a
      portable package.

      The need for a hand-held radiation detector was first born from a
      necessity to monitor nuclear weapon stockpiles to ensure nations
      adhered to treaty obligations. An even more pressing need surfaced
      after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, when national security
      experts worried the former superpowers nuclear arsenal could spark a
      black market in fissile materials. In the wrong hands, these isotopes
      could be used to build both nuclear bombs and conventional bombs laden
      with radioactive material a so-called dirty bomb. And rather than being
      delivered via intercontinental missiles, contraband isotopes can be
      hidden in backpacks and car trunks, meaning airports, border
      checkpoints, and shipping terminals provide the last best chance to
      thwart smuggling.

      To complicate matters, any tool used to screen for isotopes in busy
      terminals must detect not only the presence of radiation, but also the
      type. A terrorist could mask radioactive material destined for a dirty
      bomb in a seemingly benign package of medical isotopes, and therefore
      sneak past a Geiger counter.


   [radiation_detector.jpg]

      Thats where the Cryo3 comes in. At the heart of the unit is a high
      purity germanium crystal. Energetic photons, X and gamma rays, interact
      in the germanium crystal to create a corresponding charge. When further
      processed, this charge depicts both the quantity and type of
      radioactive isotope present. Although germanium offers higher radiation
      resolution than other semiconductor detectors, such as silicon and
      cadmium telluride, it must be deeply cooled, traditionally with liquid
      nitrogen. And although liquid nitrogen is very common in the
      laboratory, it is awkward to transport, store, and handle in the field.

      To sidestep this limitation, Berkeley Lab engineers coupled the
      germanium crystal to an off-the-shelf mechanical cooling device
      currently used to cool low-noise cell phone antennae. The device, which
      utilizes the Sterling cycle to reach low temperatures, only requires 15
      watts to cool the germanium to 87 degrees Kelvin. When the cryogenic
      mechanical cooler is vacuum sealed to a germanium detector, the result
      is a lightweight, highly sensitive radiation detector that operates up
      to six hours on two rechargeable camcorder batteries.

      The mechanical cooler requires 16 hours to cool the detector from room
      temperature to operating temperature, but because the batteries are hot
      swappable, a fresh supply guarantees unlimited operational time.

      In the field, the solid-state detector performs much like its lab-based
      cousins. Incident photons are absorbed by the germanium and converted
      into electrical signals at a resolution of 3.5 keV at an incident
      energy of 662 keV.

      To keep the system portable and low power without sacrificing
      resolution, Fabris and colleagues made additional refinements.
      Borrowing from lessons learned in satellite-based germanium detector
      applications, they protected the delicate crystal in a hermetically
      sealed, nitrogen-filled capsule. The encapsulated germanium detector is
      suspended with Kevlar fibers in a close-fitting utility vacuum chamber.

      Another obstacle was electronic noise, a byproduct of all electrical
      systems that is particularly troublesome in radiation detectors because
      it degrades the electronic readouts depiction of the absorbed
      radiation. In short, electronic noise softens the readouts sharp spikes
      into rounded hills, meaning valuable data is lost. Fabris turned to a
      specially designed small, low-power preamplifier that minimizes
      electronic noise without sapping battery power a critical component,
      given that conventional preamplifiers are too power-hungry to be used
      in a battery-powered device.

      So far, Fabris and colleagues have developed detectors of modest size,
      or so-called 25 percent efficient detectors. In the future, they hope
      to increase the detector size and therefore the efficiency to 50 and
      even 100 percent by using modified mechanical coolers that only cool to
      105 degrees Kelvin, a temperature still within germaniums operating
      parameters. The modified mechanical coolers have almost twice the heat
      lift for the same input power when compared to the conventional
      mechanical cooler.

      Ultimately, Fabris foresees a time when next-generation iterations of
      Cryo3 safeguard the nation with lab-quality, portable radiation
      detection and characterization.

      Whatever you can detect with a germanium crystal, you can detect with
      the portable system, says Fabris. Ideally, we would be able to place
      one at any customs port.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   ALS Researchers Win AAASs Oldest Prize

      Harry Noller and his team of researchers from the University of
      California at Santa Cruz, with Thomas Earnest of Berkeley Labs Physical
      Biosciences Division, are winners of the American Association for the
      Advancement of Sciences Newcomb Cleveland Award for their paper Crystal
      structure of the ribosome at 5.5 Å resolution, which appeared in the
      May 4, 2001, issue of Science magazine.

      The prize consists of a bronze medal and $5,000 in cash. Established in
      1923 and the AAASs oldest, it is awarded to the author or authors of an
      outstanding paper published in Science, one that constitutes a
      fundamental contribution to basic knowledge or is a technical
      achievement of far-reaching consequence. With their high-resolution
      image of the 70s ribosome, the Noller-Earnest collaboration more than
      achieved those goals.

      Ribosomes are the molecular machines inside cells that assemble
      functioning proteins from amino acids, using genetic information
      brought from genes in the cells DNA by lengths of messenger RNA.
      Ribosomes themselves are large complexes, some 2.5 million times more
      massive than a single hydrogen atom, built from three RNA molecules and
      more than 50 protein molecules. To date, they are the largest
      asymmetric structures ever solved by crystallography techniques.

      The structure was solved using the crystallography beamline at the
      Advanced Light Source, designed by Earnest and constructed under his
      direction. Noller, who is the Robert L. Sinsheimer professor of
      molecular biology at UC Santa Cruz and helped create the Center for
      Molecular Biology of RNA there, has long collaborated with Earnest in
      using the ALSs Macromolecular Crystallography Facility to investigate
      the ribosome.

      Their work was performed on complete ribosomes from the heat-tolerant
      microbe Thermus thermophilus, and elucidates not only structure but
      function, partly because not only the ribosome but transfer RNA chains
      bound to it were imaged as well.

      Noller, Earnest, and their coauthors share the Newcomb Cleveland prize
      with Thomas Steitz of Yale University, another longtime ribosome
      researcher, whose Science paper describes his imaging of the ribosomes
      50s subunit.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Open House This Fall Volunteers Needed

      On Saturday, Oct. 5, Berkeley Lab will once again open its site and
      scientific facilities to the public for its popular Open House event.

      This will be the fourth time the Lab has invited the community to take
      part in a day-long series of tours, events and educational activities.
      The last Open House was held in May of 2000, when close to 5,000 people
      visited the Lab to peer into the worlds of physics, life sciences,
      energy, computing and more. The event, which has proven enormously
      popular with the community, offers a unique opportunity for the Lab to
      showcase its science and to share the excitement and value of the
      research that is done here.

      Open House 2002 will once again highlight the broad scope of Berkeley
      Lab science programs as represented by participating divisions and
      departments. As in the past, there will be interactive demonstrations,
      displays of labs and research facilities, numerous hands-on activities
      for children, as well as music and refreshments.

      A task force to plan the event is now being formed, and Laboratory
      divisions and employees are encouraged to participate in program
      development. For more information on ways to contribute, contact Ron
      Kolb at X7586 or RRKolb@lbl.gov.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Breast Cancer Forum Focuses on Bissells Research


   [XBD200201_00022_04.jpg]

      Life Sciences Division Director Mina Bissell, who started the Breast
      Cancer Research Awareness Forum last summer, was back on Jan. 17 to
      launch this years series with a lively presentation in the Building 50
      auditorium on Breast Cancer Research: New Models for the Millennium.

      Bissell was recently named one of five recipients of the Innovator
      Award, a new grant established by the Breast Cancer Research Program of
      the Department of Defense. The $3 million awarded to Bissell will
      support her continued research over the next four years into the
      relationship between malignancy and the microenvironment of epithelial
      cells.

      In her presentation, Bissell discussed her research and the awards
      contribution to her future work in understanding breast cancer. Her
      multidisciplinary team includes collaborators from the Lab and from
      across the United States.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Be Part of Currents!

      Do you have an interesting story or anecdote to tell?

      Did you or one of your colleagues accomplish something that you think
      others would like to hear about?

      Are you working on some interesting research?

      Do you have a picture you would like to have published?

      Here at Currents we would like to involve as many of you as possible so
      that the paper truly reflect the entire scope of the Lab community.

      Please send your suggestions to msfriedlander@lbl.gov. We cannot
      publish every item submitted, but we will consider all your
      suggestions.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Bulletin Board

   Its the Cheesehead . . .


   [XBD200201_00019_01.jpg]

      The bet was simple: the loser wears the colors of the winner for one
      day. The Green Bay Packers, football team of choice for Deputy Division
      Director Robin Wendt of Environment, Health and Safety, beat the San
      Francisco 49ers, favorites of EH&S Division office manager June Wong,
      in a playoff game on Jan. 13. That Monday, June suffered the ignominy
      of a cheesehead hat and various other Packer paraphernalia which
      populated her office. But she got the last laugh: Green Bay was
      eliminated by St. Louis last weekend.  — Photo by Robert Couto

   Travel News

      Frequent Flyer Miles

      A travel advisory issued by the General Services Office of
      Governmentwide Policy has some good news for federal travelers who earn
      frequent traveler benefits while on official government travel. Thanks
      to a new law (the National Defense Authorization Act), federal
      employees and contractors will be allowed to retain frequent flyer
      miles for their personal use. The law repeals a 1994 act prohibiting
      such use. For more information contact the Travel Office.

      New Baggage Screening: Prepare for further airport delays

      Starting in January, the nations airlines have to do security
      inspections on all checked bags under the new Aviation and
      Transportation Security Act.  Although details have not been discussed
      yet by most airlines, travelers should expect additional delays at
      check-in. A variety of screening methods may be used, including
      cross-checking baggage and passenger lists to make sure no stray bags
      are on board, bomb sniffing dogs, hand searches and explosive detection
      machines. The Security Act specifies that all luggage must be screened
      by the explosive detection machines, which are currently in short
      supply.

   New Grizzly Gate Schedule

      In order to avoid traffic congestion at the Strawberry gate, the
      Grizzly Gate is extending its hours of operation in the morning. The
      gate will now be open from 6:30 to 9:30 a.m. and from 3 to 6:30 p.m.

   Presenters Needed for Daughters and Sons to Work Day

      Organizers for this years Daughters and Sons to Work Day, to be held on
      April 25, are looking for workshop presenters who can provide engaging
      activities for children aged 9 to 15.

      The workshops will be held at 10:30 a.m. and again at 1 p.m. and should
      focus on science, technology and careers at Berkeley Lab. Chaperones
      are also needed.

      To volunteer, call Rollie Otto (X5325) or Alyce Herrera (X7411) in the
      Center for Science and Engineering Education.

   Board Members Needed for Science Exploration Camp

      Berkeley Lab's Science Exploration Camp (SEC) is seeking board members
      to help plan for Summer 2002. SEC is a non-profit organization run by
      volunteers. The camp provides a mix of recreational and
      science-oriented activities for school-age children of Lab employees.

      For more information e-mail sciencecamp@ lbl.gov.

   Blood Drive Feb. 5–6

      Berkeley Lab's two-day Winter Blood Drive, part of an ongoing
      partnership between the Laboratory and the American Red Cross Blood
      Services, will be held on Tuesday, Feb. 5 (8 a.m. to 1 p.m.) and
      Wednesday, Feb. 6 (8 a.m. to 2 p.m.) in Bldg. 70A-3377. Donors are
      encouraged to schedule appointments online at the BeADonor website
      (http://www.beadonor.com/). Use company/group code "LBL" on the web
      form.

      To be eligible to donate blood, donors must be in good health, at least
      17 years old, weigh at least 110 pounds, and not have donated blood in
      the last 56 days. Please check the BeADonor website for detailed
      eligibility requirements, as some of the criteria have changed
      recently.

      This is a slow time for blood donations and your help is needed to help
      replenish the blood supply. For more information, contact Charlotte
      Bochra at X4268.

   Surplus Chemicals

      Surplus chemicals are available free for use by DOE projects. To look
      up chemicals, see http://www-ia1.lbl.gov/chemx/ or contact Shelley
      Worsham at X6123.

   Computer Corner

      Easy Shortcuts to Help Desk, E-mail, Software, Calendar

      Tired of remembering or looking up those long URLs? If you need to
      access the computer Help Desk, the central software download page, or
      wish to look up information about e-mail and calendar support, all you
      need to do is add a suffix to the Labs main URL (http://www.lbl.gov/):
      /mail, /cal, /help or /download.

      Depending on how your computer is configured, you may not even have to
      do that much. Simply type help in your browsers location field and you
      will access the computer support page of the Computing Infrastructure
      Support Department.

      New Calendar Client for Macs Now Available

      The new Steltor CorporateTime client for Macintosh is now available
      from the Lab's Software Download page. Look for Steltor CorporateTime
      5.2 for Mac NEW" in the web/E-mail section. This new version fixes
      several problems with the older Netscape version of the Macintosh
      calendar client, including a bug in the reminder function.

      Before installing the software, make sure to run the Mac software
      update from the control panel for the latest version of Carbon
      Libraries from Apple. After downloading and installing Steltor, read
      this client configuration information.

      Back Up Your Computer Data

      According to the Lab's Regulations and Procedures Manual,
      responsibility for protecting data rests with its owner that is, you.
      And the more we rely on computers for our work, the more important it
      becomes for each of us to set up a reliable way to back up files. Doing
      so can prevent the loss of months or even years worth of work.

      To protect against accidentally erasing or deleting a file, its enough
      to make backup copies on your computer. To protect important files
      against a system or hard drive failure, copy the more valuable data to
      a tape or disk. Protecting data against total loss (as could happen in
      a fire) requires offsite storage of all backed up files.

      The centralized backup services currently provided by CIS for PCs,
      Macs, UNIX and Linux computers provide regular reliable updating of all
      data and storage in a protected offsite location. Fewer than 900 onsite
      computers are currently protected by this service.

      For more information, visit the CIS page at
      http://www.lbl.gov/ITSD/CIS/Services/backups.html.

      Photo:  help_desk

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Calendar

   General Interest

   JANUARY 29, Tuesday

      COUNTERTERRORISM AND SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY
      Randall Murch, FBI Laboratory
      12 1:30 p.m., Bldg. 50 auditorium

   JANUARY 31, Thursday

      SHOEMOBILE
      7:30 a.m. 3:30 p.m., cafeteria parking lot

   FEBRUARY 4, Monday

      TRIPMOBILE
      12 1 p.m., cafeteria parking lot

   FEBRUARY 5, Tuesday

      WINTER BLOOD DRIVE
      8 a.m. 1 p.m., Bldg. 70, Room 3377

      Send us your announcements

      Announcements for the General Calendar and Bulletin Board page may be
      sent to MSFriedlander@lbl.gov. Seminar & Lectures items may be mailed
      to currents_ calendar@lbl.gov. You may also fax items to X6641 or mail
      them to Bldg. 65B. The deadline for the Feb. 8 issue is 5 p.m. Monday,
      Feb. 4.

   Seminars & Lectures

   JANUARY 28, Monday

      DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
      Luminescence from Laser-Induced Bubbles in Water and Cryogenic Liquids
      Speaker: Gary Williams, University of California at Los Angeles
      4:30 p.m., 1 Le Conte Hall

   JANUARY 29, Tuesday

      LIFE SCIENCES DIVISION SEMINAR
      Visual Biochemistry: Watching Enzymes Repair DNA at the Single-Molecule
      Level
      Speaker: Stephen C. Kowalczykowski, UC Davis
      4:00 p.m., Building 66 auditorium

      PHYSICS DIVISION SPECIAL RESEARCH PROGRESS MEETING
      Counterterrorism and Science and Technology
      Speaker: Randall Murch, Assistant Director, FBI Laboratory
      Noon, Building 50 auditorium

   JANUARY 31, Thursday

      PHYSICS DIVISION RESEARCH PROGRESS MEETING
      Supernova Searches, Dark Energy and the Causal Structure of the
      Universe
      Speaker: Glenn Starkmann, Western Reserve University
      4:00 p.m., Building 50A-5132

   FEBRUARY 4, Monday

      DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
      QCD Under Extreme Conditions at the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider
      Speaker: James L. Nagle, Columbia University
      4:30 p.m., 1 Le Conte Hall

   FEBRUARY 5, Tuesday

      PHYSICS DIVISION RESEARCH PROGRESS MEETING
      Gamma-Ray Bursts: The Afterglow Revolution
      Speaker: Titus Galama, Caltech
      4:00 p.m., Building 50A-5132

   FEBRUARY 6, Wednesday

      NUCLEAR SCIENCE DIVISION COLLOQUIUM
      Recent Gas-Phase Chemical Studies with Element 108 and
      Outlook for Chemistry Experiments with Spherical Superheavy Elements
      Speaker: Heinz Gaeggeler, University of Bern, Switzerland
      11:00 a.m., Building. 50 auditorium

   FEBRUARY 7, Thursday

      PHYSICS DIVISION RESEARCH PROGRESS MEETING
      Life After sin^2 beta
      Speaker: Vasilli Shelkov, Berkeley Lab
      4:00 p.m., Building 50A-5132

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   EH&S Classes February 2002


   Date

       Course

                                                Time

                                                           Building

   2/5

       EHS 275

               Confined Space Hazards

                                                8:30 11:00

                                                           51-201

   2/5

       EHS 274

               Confined Space-Retraining

                                                11:00 12:00

                                                           51-201

   2/5

       EHS 330

               Lead Hazards Awareness

                                                1:00 2:00

                                                           51-201

   2/6

       EHS 116

               First Aid

                                                8:30 12:00

                                                           48-109

   2/6

       EHS 276

               Fall Protection

                                                9:00 11:00

                                                           51-201

   2/7

       EHS 60

               Ergonomics for Computer Users

                                                9:00 10:30

                                                           51-201

   2/7

       EHS 256

               Lockout/Tagout

                                                1:30 3:00

                                                           51-201

   2/12

       EHS 10

               Introduction to EHS at LBNL

                                                8:00 10:15

                                                           50 aud

   2/13

       EHS 123

               Adult CPR

                                                8:30 12:00

                                                           51-201

   2/13

       EHS 210

               Hoist

                                                10:30 12:00

                                                           51-201

   2/14

       EHS 278

               Ladder Safety

                                                9:00 10:00

                                                           51-201

   2/14

       EHS 280

               Laser Safety

                                                1:00 4:00

                                                           51-201

   2/19

       EHS 135

               Earthquake Safety

                                                10:30 11:30

                                                           48-109

   2/20

       EHS 260

               Basic Electric Safety

                                                10:00 11:30

                                                           51-201

   2/20

       EHS 530

               Fire Extinguisher

                                                10:00 11:30

                                                           48-109

   2/20

       EHS 283

               Ultra Violet User Safety

                                                1:30 2:30

                                                           51-201

   2/21

       EHS 60

               Ergonomics for Computer Users

                                                1:00 2:30

                                                           51-201

   2/26

       EHS 604

               Hazardous Waste Generator

                                                9:30 11:00

                                                           51-201

   2/26

       EHS 622

               Radioactive/Mixed Waste Generator

                                                11:00 12:00

                                                           51-201

   2/27

       EHS 210

               Hoist

                                                10:30 12:00

                                                           51-201

   2/27

       EHS 735/
       738/739

               Biosafety/Bloodborne Pathogen

                                                1:30 2:45

                                                           51-201

   2/28

       EHS 400

               Radiation Safety-Fundamentals

                                                9:00 12:00

                                                           51-201

   2/28

       EHS 432

               Radiation Protection-Lab Safety

                                                1:00 5:00

                                                           51-201

      To enroll, contact Valarie Espinoza at VMEspinoza@lbl.gov or enroll via
      the web at https://hris.lbl.gov/self_service/training/. Preregistration
      is required for all courses except EHS 10. For a full, updated
      schedule, see http://www-ia1.lbl.gov/schedule/.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   AIM Computer Classes: Jan.  March

      AIM, a Walnut Creek-based computer software training firm, provides
      onsite PC computer courses to Lab employees.


   Date

                      Course

                                            Price

   1/28

            PowerPoint 97 Fundamentals

                                            $150

   1/30

               Word 97 Intermediate

                                            $150

   1/31

               Excel 97 Fundamentals

                                            $150

   2/4

           HTML 4.0 Programming Level I

                                            $225

   2/5

           Dreamweaver 3.0 Fundamentals

                                            $300

   2/6

          FileMaker Pro 5.5 Intermediate

                                            $150

   2/21

               Excel 97 Intermediate

                                            $150

   2/22

        PowerPoint 97 Intermediate/Advanced

                                            $150

   3/6

                 Word 97 Advanced

                                            $150

   3/7

       Dreamweaver 3.0 Intermediate/Advanced

                                            $300

   3/13

                 Excel 97 Advanced

                                            $150

   3/14

            FileMaker Pro 5.5 Advanced

                                            $150

   3/21

           HTML 4.0 Programming Level II

                                            $225

      Classes are held in Bldg. 51L from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Class descriptions
      and registration procedure are available at
      http://www.lbl.gov/Workplace/EDT/computers/PC_Classes. html. All
      in-house courses are taught on PCs with Windows 98®. The 97 series
      programs are used by the newest version of Microsoft Office for Windows
      98®. Series 6.x programs for the Mac are nearly identical to the
      Windows 98® versions. For users of a Mac 6.x series or an older Mac or
      PC version, the material covered in these courses will be applicable.

      Note: The desks in the 51L Computer Training room were recently
      replaced with ergonomically enhanced workstations.

      For more information contact Heather Pinto at hmpinto@lbl.gov.

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Flea Market

   AUTOS / SUPPLIES

      '01 HONDA EX, leather w/ wood trim, 7K mi, silver, 4 spd, 4 dr, ac,
      sunrf, 4-whl ABS, pwr steer/locks, dual airbags, alarm, am/fm/cass/ cd,
      Chang, X4417, 527-9108

      '99 JEEP GRAND CHEROKEE LARADO, 4 wd, 4.0L 6, blk on slae, 77K mi, ac,
      sunrf, 10 disc cd, infinity snd sys, dual pwr leather heated seats, pwr
      win/dr/ locks, 5 alloy wheels, ABS, tow pkg, overhead console, trak lok
      diff service recs, extra clean, $17,900, Worley, 527-3869

      '95 BMW 325 IS, blk on blk, at, sport pkg, ac, sunrf, am/fm/cass/cd,
      dual pwr leather seats & air bags, premium wheels, recently serviced,
      new brakes, very clean, 77K mi, $16,000/bo, June, X2916, Rich, (650)
      867-8828

      '94 ACURA INTEGRA, 2 dr, 58K, at, ac, pw, ps, radio/cass, airbags, tilt
      wheel, 1 owner, garaged, $7,500/ bo, Dave, X4506, (925) 691-6081

      '93 ACURA INTEGRA LS, exc cond, 113K mi, gray, 5 spd, 2 dr/hatch, ac,
      pwr moonrf/steer/win, cruise, alarm, am/fm/cass, tilt wheel, tinted
      rear win, car cover, new batt, maint recs, 1 owner, extra clean,
      $5,800, Ken, X6343, (707) 643-4065

      '91 SATURN SL2, blue, ac, all pwr, ABS, 5 spd, 145K mi, good cond, runs
      well, body & paint good except for paint blemish on hood, $2,100, Dan,
      758-5584

      '89 ACURA LEGEND L, white, V6, 196K mi, 4 dr, at, leather int
      (damaged), driver airbag, ac, all pwr, tilt wheel, cruise, am/fm/ cass,
      moonrf, needs work, $1,000/bo, Heather, 832-3829, X4181

      '87 HONDA CRX, runs/ looks like '97, new engine/ trans, 5 spd, great
      stereo, $2,395/bo, X7670, 520-1369 cell, (925) 432-2383 home

      '87 CHEVY NOVA, exc cond, $1,600/bo, Jacek, X6254, (707) 425-1828

      '85 MERCEDES BENZ 300, turbo diesel, 160K mi, blue, clean, at, sunrf,
      pwr locks/win/mirror, alarm, am/fm/cass, cruise, records, well kept,
      $3,400, George, X7252, 234-5250

      '85 HONDA CIVIC, 199K mi, 1.5L, manual, runs well, $800/bo, Morgan,
      X6594, 845-1522

      '85 BMW 535i, loaded, looks/runs great, $4,300/ bo, Leslie, 643-2816

      '76 CHEVY NOVA, 4 dr, lt yellow, straight body, never damaged; new V6
      eng, carpet, upholstery & windshield,all receipts, $2,150/ bo, Janice,
      235-1767

      '68 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL, 2 dr, ac, all pwr, not running, body is
      perfect, all chrome intact, nearly new tires, silver w/ blk top, 460 V8
      w/ 3 spd at, needs new exhaust valves & valve job, rare find, $1,000,
      Angelic or Kris, 276-6756

      16.5" FORD 8-LUG RIMS & TIRES, set of 4, great shape, $50, Angelic or
      Kris, X4079, 276-6756

   MOTORCYCLES

      '89 HONDA XR100R dirt bike, looks/runs great, one new engine (lower &
      upper), X7670, 520-1369 cell, (925) 432-2383 home

   HOUSING

      ALBANY apt, 2 bdrm/2 bth, 555 Pierce St., near Lab, $1,600/ mo, lease
      until 3/31 (flex), Yang, 205-6995

      ALBANY HILLS home for rent, 2 bdrm/1 bth, hill view, yard, 1+ car
      garage, storage, walk to Solano Ave stores, w/w carpet, hrdwd flrs,
      central heat, w/d hookups, laundry chute, fireplace, dw, grbg disposal,
      large refrig, new paint, no pets/smoking, 1-yr lease, renewable
      $1,700-$1,800/ mo + $2,000 dep, Miguel, X6443, mafurman@lbl.gov,
      Margie, 450-2172/msgs

      BERKELEY HILLS, fully furn rm w/ sep entry, full kitchen priv, w/d,
      quiet neighborhd, lovely backyard, near bus, avail 2/01, $875/mo incl
      util, Karen, 525-5797, klscott@eecs. berkeley.edu

      BERKELEY HILLS, room in 2 bdrm/1 bth apt, fully furn, lots of closet
      space, laundry, lge kitchen, liv rm, garden, TV, DSL avail, friendly
      neighbors, close to bus & Lab, $850/mo, 549-0285

      BERKELEY, furn house avail for March, dates neg, 2 bdrm/1 bth, sm yard,
      quiet, Allston Way 3 blks east of San Pablo, rent reduced to $950 for
      taking care of dog (affectionate lab mix), Jan, 843-3171

      BERKELEY, furn rms in 6 bdrm/2 bth House of Scholars, 1425 Ward St. at
      Sacramento, house phone, w/d, common liv rm & kitchen, house computer
      w/ DSL access, off-str parking, housecleaning, 2 mo min stay,
      $670-790/mo + 15% util, Anushka, 486-8153, housintscholar@
      mindspring.com

      BERKELEY, sm furn room w/ priv bth in home near Claremont, borders
      Parkland, walk to UC, overlooks garden patio, light cooking allowed,
      other tenants incl owners & UC faculty, mature researchers/ scholars &
      long-term visiting faculty pref, rent neg in  exch of light
      work/house-sitting, 848-4022

      CENTRAL BERKELEY, nice furn rooms, kitchen, laundry, TV, DSL, hardwd
      flrs, linens, dishes, walk to Lab shuttle, campus, BART, & shops,
      $950/mo incl util, $350/wk, Jin or Paul, 845-5959, jin.young@juno. com,
      Paul X7363

      EL CERRITO rm, close to bus, BART, shops, restaurants, housemates are
      UCB grad students, lge house w/ many amenities, laundry, view, d/w,
      hardwd flrs, fireplc, off-str parking, $625/ mo, Michael, 236-4916

      EL CERRITO, 1 room avail now in 2 bdrm apt, walk to BART/shops, new
      complex, big & sunny, 1-1/2 bth, fireplc, balcony, dw, parking,
      laundry, fitness center & pool, share w/ male grad student, $635/ mo,
      Igor, swed733@ yahoo.com

      LAKE MERRITT, sublet lge apt, 1/18 to 7/1 (maybe longer), fully furn,
      phone, cable & DSL, 3 min walk to BART, $1,250/mo, Lorri, X7493, Scott,
      663-2255

      NORTH BERKELEY, short-term rental, 3/1 to early May, 1 furn bdrm in 2
      bdrm house, panoramic view, front & back yard, lge liv rm, near Tilden
      & Lab, quiet & friendly female housemate, $600/mo + util, Heather,
      X2226, 527-7991

      ORINDA, 15 min drive to Lab, woodsy/rural setting, 2 rms/priv bth in 4
      bdrm house, $700/mo for both rms, Mary, (925) 254-6940

   HOUSING WANTED

      HOUSING EXCHANGE: 2 artists wish to exch 1800 sq ft Chelsea loft for
      comparable accomm in Bay Area, late Mar to June 15, loft has 1 lge
      bdrm, 1 kid's rm, lge liv rm/kitchen/din area, painter's studio, w/d,
      4th flr, security bldg, elev access, 20th St betw 7th & 8th Aves, walk
      to galleries, Chelsea Piers, close to subway stops & great shopping,
      berlind4@ aol.com

      LAB EMPLOYEE seeks 1 bdrm/studio in Berkeley/ Oakland, Steve, X6966

      VISITING FRENCH GRAD STUDENT (male), here for 6 mos starting mid Feb,
      seeks furn 1 bdrm or shared 2 bdrm close to Lab, djacobs@lbl.gov, X7535

      VISITING GERMAN STUDENT (female) seeks accommodations near Lab 3/1 -
      8/31, Katja.Thaidigsmann@web.de

   MISC FOR SALE

      FUTON SOFA/BED blk steel frame, qn size, $60; women's bike, 12 gears
      $50; qn size mattress, $50; Ikea bookshelf, $15; 3 plants w/ pot, $20;
      tea table, $15; old microwave, $10; BBQ, $10; cooler, $5, Roger, X7709,
      883-0516

      FUTON, blk metallic frame w/ 6" mattress, $140; TV table, blk, $20;
      table & 2 padded chairs, $100; all items in exc cond, only a few mos
      old, Shirin, X5550, 965-0644 eves

      K2 SKIS, sidecut 7.9, Nor-dica boots, size 6 - 6 1/2, like new, $200
      for all, Norma, (925) 254-1296

      KENMORE ELECTRIC DRYER, exc cond, $75, Angelic or Kris, X4079, 276-6756

      SHARP (19N-M100) TV, $135; JVC stereo video, $100; full sz mattress,
      box spring & wd frame, $120; sofabed, $50; 2 lamps, $20/pr; Sony
      cd/tape/radio, $35; lge chest drawers, $20; various chairs, small
      tables, iron/brd, bookshelf, toaster, phone/answ mach, kitchenware, all
      neg, Morgan, X6594, 845-1522

      SKIS, dynastar pwrtracs 186 cm, less than 1 yr old, ess-6-14 bindings;
      squaw valley lift tkts, $47/ea, X7670, 520-1369 cell, (925) 432-2383
      home

      SOUTHWEST AIRLINES round trip ticket voucher, no restrictions, valid
      until 3/15, $250/bo, Steve, X7855, (925) 682-6008

      THULE SKI/BIKE RACK w/ locks, '96 model, in storage 3 yrs, $175; dbl
      bed frame, lt color wood, $60; halogen floor lamp, table lamps, 3
      ceramic & 2 japanese style paper, call for prices; ab-does exercise
      mach, new, $25; bun & thigh body mach, new, $50, Worley, 527-3869

      VACUUM CLEANER, Eureka The Boss Smartvac Limited, 12-Amp upright, HEPA
      filter, unused, $120; Panasonic KXFP155 plain paper fax/phone, digital
      answ system, caller ID, unused, $80, Dave, X4506

   FREE

      MITSUBISHI (CS-20201) TV in need of repair, Morgan, X6594, 845-1522

      SURPLUS CHEMICALS, for use by DOE projects, http://www-ia1.lbl.gov
      /chemx/, NACI/PEG Solution, STET-E1 Solution, Shelley, X6123

   WANTED

      FRYING PAN, med or lge, Elisa, X7863, 665-9091

      HARD CASE for acoustic guitar, Morgan, X6594, 845-1522

                                [currents-toc.gif]

   Flea Market Policy

      Ads are accepted only from LBNL employees, retirees, and onsite DOE
      personnel, and shoud include name, affiliation, extension, and home
      phone. Ads must be submitted in writing (fleamarket@ lbl.gov, fax:
      X6641, or mailed to Bldg. 65B.) They run one week only unless
      resubmitted, and are repeated only as space permits.  The deadline for
      the Feb. 8 issue is Thursday, Jan. 31.
