http://www.calstrs.ca.gov/publish/printed/Alert0102.pdf

   ALERT B E N E F I T L E G I S L A T I O N Volume II, Number 1
   Legislative Provisions Affecting CalSTRS Benefits as of January 22,
   2002 Each year, legislation is introduced that would, if enacted,
   improve benefits paid to some CalSTRS members who retire in the future.
   If you are considering retiring soon, you might be interested to know
   what bills of this type are being considered this year. The Benefit
   Legislation Alert has been devel- oped by CalSTRS to raise member
   awareness of legislative provisions affecting CalSTRS benefits. Since
   all legislative proposals are subject to change during the legislative
   year, please see the box on page two for informational resources to
   help you keep current on the latest benefit provisions. Benefit
   Legislation Alert Governor s Budget Proposal summarizes only the
   benefit- increasing provisions that for CalSTRS apply to CalSTRS
   members Governor Gray Davis released his proposed fiscal year 2002-03
   retiring in the future. Some budget on January 10. With the state
   facing a projected $12 billion benefit-increasing proposals shortfall,
   the Governor is seeking ways to save General Fund that affect CalSTRS
   mem- dollars. One cost-saving proposal is to defer the state's General
   bers, but are not dependent Fund contributions to CalSTRS for a short
   period with the funds on when a member retires, being repaid over a
   30-year period. Please note these important have been introduced in the
   points regarding this proposal: state Legislature. However, those
   provisions are not Impacts on Members included here. There will be NO
   negative impact on any member's benefit Generally, when legisla-
   allowance. The Teachers' Retirement Law guarantees the CalSTRS tion
   becomes law, unless the retirement and disability allowances. bill
   states otherwise, the benefits will become effective There will be NO
   negative impact on CalSTRS programs. CalSTRS on the next January 1 and
   will be fully reimbursed for the deferred contributions and the state
   apply to members who retire will pay interest on those contributions.
   The interest amount will be on or after the bill s effective equal to
   the assumed actuarial rate of return, currently 8 percent, on date. the
   amount repaid to CalSTRS. Some laws passed in 2000 increasing benefits
   to future In addition to the state reimbursing CalSTRS for the deferred
   retired CalSTRS members contributions, the state will provide members
   an increased benefit as will only affect members yet to be determined,
   which will also be paid for by the state. retiring after 2001. Summa-
   ries of those provisions are Legislative Action Required included here.
   Details on the amount of state contributions to be deferred and the
   type of benefit increase to be provided depend on the legislative
   process. The Governor's Budget Summary does, however, tentatively
   propose a new benefit-an increase in contributions to each member's
   Defined Benefit Supplement account for a specific number of years. !"
   ALERT BENEFIT LEGISLATION CalSTRS staff are working closely with
   teachers' organizations to Keep Current on ensure whatever action is
   taken with regards to a new benefit best Legislative Changes for meets
   the needs of CalSTRS and the members. Informed Decisions Amount to be
   Deferred While CalSTRS makes The General Fund contributions to CalSTRS
   would be postponed for every effort to keep its mem- 27 months,
   starting April 1, 2002, and going through June 30, 2004. bers informed
   about changes This will save the state approximately $948 million over
   this period. in its benefit structure, it cannot safely predict what
   the Legisla- The state makes contributions to the Defined Benefit
   Program and ture and Governor may do the purchasing power program,
   based on a percentage of the that might be of interest to previous
   year's payroll. For this fiscal year, the total contribution is you.
   approximately $900 million. Only about half of this annual amount For
   this reason, you (the amount that would be credited to the DB Program)
   is targeted for should keep yourself in- deferment. formed about
   possible benefit changes by consulting the Enacted Legislation CalSTRS
   website (www.calstrs.ca.gov) or the Taking Effect in the Future CalSTRS
   Public Service Office (800-228-5453), AB 2456 (Wright) Chapter 897,
   Statutes of 2000 CalSTRS retirement counse- Beginning April1, 2002, a
   member retiring for service after that date lors, your union
   representa- and before 2011 and after age 60 can elect to receive a
   portion of tive (if applicable), your his or her CalSTRS retirement
   benefit as a lump sum in exchange for legislative representative and a
   lower monthly allowance. The lump-sum amount that will be any other
   source that you available to members is limited and is based on the
   monthly believe would be helpful allowance payable at retirement. The
   amount of the monthly before you make any final allowance reduction
   cannot exceed 15 percent. decision about retirement. You are ultimately
   respon- AB 2700 (Lempert), Chapter 1021, Statutes of 2000 sible for any
   decision you make in regard to your CalSTRS Beginning July 1, 2002, all
   compensation for creditable service benefit. performed on and after
   that date will be creditable to CalSTRS. This includes compensation for
   summer school, intersession, overtime, allowances and bonuses.
   Compensation that will now be creditable will be credited to the
   Defined Benefit Program as additional credited service, up to one year.
   Member and employer contributions for more than one year of service in
   any school year will be credited to the member's Defined Benefit
   Supplement account. SB 1435 (Johnston), Chapter 1032, Statutes of 2000
   CalSTRS pays the Medicare Part A premium for members who are not
   eligible for premium-free Medicare Part A on their own and who retire
   through December 31, 2005. Eligibility for this benefit is limited !"
   to members who (1) retired from districts that have conducted or are
   conducting the Medicare election by the time the member retires, and,
   (2) if the member was under age 58 at the time of election, had elected
   to be covered by Medicare. Benefit Legislation Alert as of 1/22/02
   Volume II, Number 1 PAO-0042
