http://goldmine.cde.ca.gov/news/contest112001.htm

      California Dept of Education     A-Z Index  |   Search  |   Help
      =>News Services

                      Specialized License Plate Contest

     In January 2002 a new state law authorizing the use of a specialized
     license plate memorializing the victims of September 11, 2001 will
     be introduced in the State Legislature. Proceeds from the
     specialized license plates will be used to augment law enforcement's
     fight against terrorism and provide academic scholarships for
     California families who lost a loved one in the tragic attacks on
     America. Rather than having the license plate designed by a
     professional artist, the authors of the new bill, Assemblymember
     Herb J. Wesson, Jr., Assemblymember Dave Cox and Senator Kevin
     Murray have announced that the winning design will be chosen from
     entries submitted by high school students. I am encouraging all high
     schools in California to participate in this exciting opportunity.
     It will be a great honor to have a drawing submitted by one of your
     students attached to thousands of California license plates. In
     addition, the winning artist, principal and superintendent will be
     invited to participate in a ceremony honoring the artist on the
     floor of the California State Assembly. In order to offer this
     license plate to California residents as soon as possible, the
     design contest needs to begin immediately.

     Judging of the Contest

     Due to the fact that there are thousands of potential entries in the
     roughly 908 high schools in California, Assemblymember Wesson,
     Assemblymember Cox and Senator Murray are asking each school to have
     their own preliminary contest to select one winner. After the winner
     from each school is selected, please forward the winning design to:

     The Honorable Herb J. Wesson, Jr.
     State Capitol Room 3013
     Sacramento, CA 95814.

     When the entry is submitted, please include the name of the student,
     the name and address of the school and the name of the school
     district. All entries must be submitted to Assemblymember Wesson's
     office by January 7, 2002.

     Once all the entries have been received, a selection committee
     established by the sponsors of the bill will establish a process to
     choose the winning design. Details on the make-up of the selection
     committee and the selection process will be announced on or before
     January 7, 2002. No entry will be selected as the final design if
     deemed unreadable by law enforcement.

     The Design

     Although there are very few specific rules as to what designs can be
     submitted, license plates should be designed in a respectful nature
     appropriate for display as a symbol of California pride.

     Rules
    1. A California license plate is six inches tall and twelve inches
       wide. There are two 1" x 1 5/8" boxes in the upper left and right
       corners reserved for month and year registration stickers. There is
       also a 1 ¾" high x 7" wide box on the top of the license plate that
       must say "California" (choice of font and the use of a background
       color is up to the artist).
    2. All designs must account for the use of vehicle license plate
       numbers and letters (which are royal blue) and not obstruct law
       enforcement's ability to read the license plate. There are three
       types of license plates, or a combination of the three, under which
       a design will likely fit.

   Type A License Plate Sample Type A. Design will be used in a 3" wide x
   3 ½" high box on the left side of the license plate, that will take the
   place of the first two vehicle license plate numbers and/or letters.
   This option has no color restrictions and designs can be submitted in
   any size but will be reduced to fit in the above mentioned parameters.
   There is also a 5/8" x 6" band on the bottom of the license plate that
   can either have an additional design or a slogan with no color
   restrictions. Type A license plates will only use a combination of five
   letters and numbers for vehicle identification.

   Type B License Plate Sample Type B. Design will cover entire license
   plate. Both the "California" on the top of the license plate and the
   seven vehicle license plate numbers and/or letters must be clearly
   visible and readable by law enforcement. Designs can be submitted in
   any size but will be reduced to fit on the 6" x 12" license plate.
   Contestants should keep in mind that the seven vehicle license plate
   numbers will be royal blue and any background behind those numbers must
   not hinder law enforcement's ability to read the license plate. Type B
   will not be selected for certain designs that law enforcement deems to
   be unreadable. Type B license plates will use a combination of seven
   letters and numbers.

   Type C License Plate Sample Type C. Design will cover only the space
   around the periphery of the plate. The design cannot intrude upon the
   area behind the seven-digit license number. The "California" must
   appear on the top of the plate but background colors, fonts and
   additional designs are permitted. There are no color restrictions on
   the bottom portion of the license plate. Designs can be submitted in
   any size but will be reduced to fit the 6" x 12" license plate so as
   not to impede easy recognition of the license plate numbers and/or
   letters.

     Contestants are encouraged to use their creativity and submit a
     drawing he or she feels is most suitable regardless of whether it
     fits in Type A, B or C. The most creative and appropriate design
     will be chosen, even if small alterations must be made to fit into a
     certain license plate type. Alterations could be required at the
     request of law enforcement.

     Additional Information

     To view examples of each license plate, please visit Assemblymember
     Wesson's Web site at

     http://democrats.assembly.ca.gov/members/a47/

     or for any general questions regarding the contest, please contact
     Greg Campbell in Assemblymember Wesson's office at (916) 319-2047.

     You may also wish to visit the Department of Motor Vehicles website
     at www.dmv.ca.gov and follow the link to Personalized Plates, which
     contains information on all of the current special interest license
     plates. The link contains full color examples of each special plate.

          Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | Web Services Office
      CDE Valid: Logo for Web Standards at the California Department of
                                  Education

                                      _
