http://seawifs.gsfc.nasa.gov/SEAWIFS/TECH_REPORTS/eos_observ_1_2_94_p17.html



      The Earth Observer--January/February 1994

    MODIS/SeaWiFS Team Deploys Marine Optical Buoy, Continues Marine Optical
                          Characterization Experiment

  By David Herring (herring@ltpsun.gsfc.nasa.gov), MODIS Administrative Support,
  Science Systems & Applications, Inc.

   In support of the Earth Observing System (EOS), a Marine Optical Buoy
   (MOBY) was deployed off the coast of Lanai, Hawaii on Feb. 21, 1994.
   Funded jointly by NASA and NOAA, MOBY was developed and deployed under
   the direction of Dennis Clark, a member of both the MODIS and SeaWiFS
   science teams. The buoy's primary purpose is to measure visible and
   near-infrared radiation entering and emanating from the ocean. It is
   the variations of the visible region-reflected radiation that is
   referred to as ocean color from which other quantities can be derived,
   such as the abundance of microscopic marine plants (phytoplankton).

   Phytoplankton is critically important to the marine food chain, and it
   influences the global balance of carbon dioxide within the Earth's
   atmosphere. It is believed that the abundance of carbon in the
   atmosphere causes a general increase in global temperature and affects
   the ocean's productivity. Scientists have learned that the ocean stores
   vast volumes of carbon from the atmosphere, providing sustenance for
   phytoplankton. However, researchers don't know whether there will be a
   corresponding increase in the phytoplankton population to absorb the
   additional carbon as the volume of carbon dioxide steadily increases in
   the Earth's atmosphere.

   In its role of measuring ocean color, MOBY provides a time-series
   database for bio-optical algorithm development. Because the buoy will
   acquire data 3-5 times per day at the same site, oceanographers can now
   monitor the daily fluctuations in biomass concentrations at that site
   and fine tune their algorithms accordingly. Clark also points out that
   in addition to the oceanographic applications, MOBY will serve another
   important function as a calibration reference station for satellite
   instruments--such as SeaWiFS, EOS COLOR, MODIS, MERIS, and ADEOS
   OCTS--to assist in maintaining those instruments' accuracies.

   [p17fig.gif]
   Drawing of the prototype MOBY (courtesy of D. Clark).

   "The potential is there for not only calibrating ocean bands, but other
   low end radiances," Clark explains. "MOBY has science and calibration
   applications for the atmospheric and land sciences." So MOBY could, for
   example, support atmospheric correction programs, or radiation budget
   applications.

   "The goal is to produce a site that has high accuracy and high
   precision radiometry throughout the spectral range from 380 to 900 nm
   at approximately 2-4 nm spectral resolution," Clark continues. "MOBY
   serves as one calibration point at specific levels of ocean radiances.
   Those spectra can then be convolved to match spectral responses of a
   variety of visible and near-infrared spaceborne sensors." In short,
   MOBY will provide data for checking the calibration of different
   sensors at that particular scene and radiance level for any or all EOS
   optical instruments.

   In addition to the deployment, the Team also collected data at the MOBY
   site for the Marine Optical Characterization Experiment, or MOCE. Also
   under the direction of Clark, MOCE is a series of field experiments
   that has been in operation since 1992 parallel to the MOBY campaign.
   MOCE involves conducting experiments at sea at specific sites to obtain
   a comprehensive set of bio-optical measurements such as radiometry,
   pigment analysis, total suspended matter, beam transmittance, and
   physical properties.

   MOBY and MOCE are pre- and post-launch campaigns. Prior to launch,
   these campaigns are being conducted to help in algorithm development.
   Post launch, these campaigns will serve as a validation and calibration
   data source. For MOCE, during the post-launch operations, the shipboard
   operations are timed to be coincident with satellite overpasses, with
   the ship moving into different oceanic optical regimes. These data are
   used to check the calibration of satellite-borne ocean color sensors,
   as well as validate their derived products.

   [field_program_icon.gif]

      Illustration of the Calibration and Validation Field Program.

  MOBY's Conceptual Design

   MOBY's design is the result of a project Clark began in 1986. The buoy
   consists of six major components which, because the project was not
   funded initially, had to be purchased and integrated over time. Those
   components are a new dual spectrograph, the fiber optic multiplexer,
   the top-end buoy with solar panels and controlling software, a GOES
   (Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite) data relay system
   with data acquisition software, fiber optic radiance and irradiance
   collectors, and a dichroic water mirror for the dual spectrograph.

   The optical system uses two spectrographs with a dichroic ("water")
   mirror to measure radiometric properties with high spectral resolution
   and stray light rejection. This "water" mirror is designed to transmit
   the red (630 to 900 nm) and reflect the blue (380 to 600 nm) portions
   of the spectrum, making the transition from reflectance to
   transmittance between 590 and 650 nm. Thus potential for stray light is
   greatly reduced by splitting the visible spectrum at the beginning of
   the water absorption region since most of the short wavelength energy
   is diverted from the entrance slit of the long wavelength spectrograph.
   The splitting also allows the spectrographs (free spectral range and
   integration times) to be optimized for the two distinctive spectral
   domains. Internal calibration and ancillary sensors (temperature,
   inclination, pressure, etc.) are included.

   Approximately 50 feet long, MOBY is the world's largest marine optical
   device. In the ocean, only its antennae, solar panels, strobe light,
   and surface buoy (which houses the computer and cellular phone for data
   transmission) are visible, standing about 7 feet above the waterline. A
   fiberglass mast extends more than 40 feet directly down beneath the
   buoy to the instrument bay. At depths of about 6, 16, and 28 feet
   respectively, 9-foot long booms or "arms" extend outward perpendicular
   to the mast.

   Optical collectors (irradiance and radiance) have been placed at the
   ends of the arms, as well as on top of the buoy above the surface to
   collect light coming into the ocean, and then the light reflected back
   out of the ocean. The reflected portion of the light has been modified
   by particles such as phytoplankton suspended at various depths, that
   modifies the signal available to the satellite sensors. Lenses within
   these collectors focus the light onto fiber optic cables which then
   transmit the light to a fiber optic multiplexer housed in the
   instrument bay. The multiplexer relays the light into a dual
   spectrograph with detectors that measure the spectral radiant energy.
   These signals are then digitized and relayed by microprocessors and
   transmitted up to a main computer housed in the surface buoy. This
   information is then stored on a disk drive, which may be accessed via
   cellular phone and downloaded for processing back at the MOBY Team
   facility.

   Much of the buoy's hardware and acquisition software was engineered by
   San Jose State University's Moss Landing Marine Laboratory (MLML)
   personnel. Mark Yarbrough of MLML was responsible for the final
   integration of MOBY's components. He also oversees the daily operation
   of the MOBY Lab sites in Monterey and Honolulu. The acquisition and
   control software was written by Richard Reaves.

  MOBY Funding Sources

   The initial MOBY development phases were funded by NASA, NOAA, and the
   Office of Naval Research (ONR).

   A formal MOBY project was originally funded by MODIS to help calibrate
   and validate the satellite sensor. Fabrication of the buoy was
   accelerated when in 1991 MOBY received additional funding from SeaWiFS
   to help in its calibration and validation effort. Charles McClain
   approached Clark with the idea of using MOBY for two purposes:

    1. monitoring the degradation of SeaWiFS over time, and
    2. providing a time-series data set.

   McClain based the first purpose on his experience with the Nimbus-7
   Coastal Zone Color Scanner (CZCS). During its first 18 months in space,
   the CZCS orbital degradation was well-characterized by the Nimbus
   experiment team and confirmed by measurements taken aboard ships. After
   that period, there were no more ship measurements and, subsequently,
   there was no way of knowing how much error was contained in CZCS data.
   MOBY's second purpose--providing a time-series data set--will help
   scientists remove temporal biases from SeaWiFS observations.
   "Additionally," Clark adds, "MOBY is not constrained by when it takes
   measurements, so we can observe the response of phytoplankton to
   different light conditions." Whereas satellites can only view certain
   sites at certain times, MOBY continually takes data at its site,
   enabling scientists to interpolate between satellite observations.

   MOCE is totally a MODIS-funded endeavor.

  How is MOBY Calibrated?

   MOBY was calibrated before deployment according to NIST- (National
   Institute of Standards and Technology) traceable standards. The
   radiance collectors were calibrated using an Optronix integrating
   sphere and the irradiance collectors were calibrated using a NIST
   1,000-W FEL. The radiance collectors were calibrated using a lamp with
   a more diffuse light output, because the light reflected back upward
   through the water column is diffuse.

   Also, MOBY contains an internal calibration system. Light from two
   onboard LED (Light Emitting Diode) lamps (green and red) illuminate a
   Labsphere Spectralon target that absorbs light at certain wavelengths
   and reflects all others. The Spectralon target reflects onto an
   internal mirror (when it is in the calibration position), and the light
   is then reflected into the relay optics of the dual spectrograph. This
   allows for calibration checks on the spectral and absolute intensity of
   the system.

   Additionally, every month, divers from MLML and the University of
   Hawaii will dive at the site with submersible calibration lamps that
   will be coupled with the collectors in order to monitor system
   performance.

   In order to implement this operational plan, two advanced versions of
   the MOBY prototype are now being built. Over the course of 5 years
   these buoys will be swapped out for general maintenance and calibration
   testing on a quarterly basis. But, before the prototype is removed from
   the water, both buoys will operate together at the same site for
   several measurement cycles to establish a crossover calibration between
   the two instruments to characterize offsets and biases between the two.
   During this time, both MOBYs will gather concurrent sets of
   observations to allow the different systems' offsets and biases to be
   characterized. These observations will allow the Team to characterize
   or observe the magnitude of biofouling that may be affecting the
   measurements. (Presently, the biofouling problem is being addressed by
   coating the collectors with an optically transparent organo-tin
   compound.)

  Contributions to Science

   Distinguishing the difference between incoming sunlight and that which
   is reflected back upward at different depths enables scientists to
   derive biomass concentrations. Different elements reflect and absorb
   light in characteristically different ways. For example, scientists
   have noticed that when there is an abundance of microscopic marine
   plants, the ocean appears green--phytoplankton absorbs red and blue
   visible light and reflects green. By measuring this color, scientists
   can calculate the biomass present.

   According to Stanford Hooker, a member of NASA's SeaWiFS Project,
   MOBY's data will help scientists better understand the effects of
   atmospheric CO2 on oceanic biomass concentrations. Hooker says there
   has been a global increase in atmospheric CO2, resulting from an
   increase in fossil fuel burning over the last century. Some of that CO2
   is absorbed into the oceans; however, there is a limit to how much the
   oceans can store. Scientists don't know what the oceans' saturation
   limit is, nor do they know how long it will take to reach it.

   "Plants consume CO2 as part of their metabolism," he explains. "But, if
   you change ocean conditions, will phytoplankton take up more or less
   CO2? Some scientists argue that the plants are at their saturation
   level and cannot adapt." One theory holds that if the marine plant
   community cannot help absorb the additional CO2, then the increase of
   the gas in the atmosphere will accelerate global warming.

   MOCE and MOBY operations include taking measurements in three broad
   categories: optical, biological, and physical. According to Hooker,
   MOBY's data products include water-leaving radiance and absorption and
   attenuation parameters that enable the Team to derive the following
   products: phytoplankton pigments, phytoplankton concentration, total
   suspended matter, chlorophyll a, and fluorescence quantum efficiency.

   The Team has also recently deployed another device for collecting in
   situ data to complement MOCE and MOBY observations in order to provide
   higher quality data sets. A device resembling a delta wing--called a
   paravan--is lowered to different depths of the ocean and towed
   alongside the ship. The paravane has been modified to house a pumping
   system (which collects relatively uncontaminated sea water and pumps it
   via a hose back up to the ship) and an in situ fluorometer. The pumping
   system delivers sea water to instruments onboard the ship which measure
   fluorescence, transmissivity, and particle size distribution. These
   data will be compared to SeaWiFS/MODIS-derived products for validation.

   Initially, MOBY data will be processed by MLML and stored by the
   SeaWiFS Project, an operation that will ultimately be taken over by
   EOSDIS. The data processing system software--adapted from CZCS
   processing software--was engineered by Michael Feinholz, of MLML. MOBY
   data will be cooperatively analyzed by Clark, MOBY Chief Scientist, and
   Professor William Broenkow, oceanographer at MLML. These data will
   eventually be made available to researchers worldwide.

   Already other investigators are becoming involved with the project. For
   example, researchers at the University of Hawaii will use MOBY data to
   aid their efforts. Bob Bedigary is developing oceanic primary
   productivity models, Tony Clark will use MOBY to study atmospheric
   aerosols, and Dave Karl is monitoring CO2 fluxes in the area.

  MOBY Deployment Sites

   In November of 1992 and 1993 MOBY was temporarily deployed in Monterey
   Bay, California, for system testing and evaluation. This site was
   chosen mainly due to its proximity to the lab site where MOBY was
   fabricated, which is operated by San Jose State University's Moss
   Landing Marine Laboratories.

   The new, permanent deployment site of MOBY is 20 degree 49.0 sec N
   Latitude, 157 degree 11.5 sec W Longitude--or about 11 nautical miles
   west of Lanai, Hawaii. This site was chosen primarily because it meets
   the MODIS Ocean Team's calibration/validation criteria. Also, the
   neighboring islands--Molokai, Lanai, and Maui--provide a lee from the
   wind so conditions there remain relatively calm. Of course, should
   typhoon conditions threaten, MLML may quickly retrieve the buoy and
   then re-deploy it after the storm. Finally, the MOBY site is within
   range of cellular phone coverage, rendering its data easily accessible.

  Hard Work and High Risks

   Placing a highly complex scientific instrument in an environment as
   hostile as the ocean is risky business. MOBY will be exposed to high
   wind and waves, corrosive salt, and marine organisms--such as barnacles
   that may grow on its collectors. Then there is the threat of damage
   from vandalism or accidents from recreational maritime activities. In
   Hawaii, commercial and sport fishermen like to fish near buoys, called
   FADs (Fish Aggregation Devices), around which fish often school. The
   Team fears fishermen may damage MOBY by accidentally bumping it; or,
   while trawling, they may entangle and drag the buoy. Any of these
   threats could result in structural or electrical failure, or drifting.

   Clark readily admits that there are many ways the buoy can fail. "More
   buoys have been lost due to mooring failure than probably any other
   reason," he states. "However, nothing is gained unless you push
   technology to its limits, and that in itself is a high risk." In an age
   of dwindling funding, pushing technological limits is a tall order.
   Because funds were not available in 1986 for beginning and developing a
   complete system, the incremental development approach was used in which
   the total system concept was developed and then the individual
   components were built as funds became available. These components were
   bought in the mid-80s, so many of the components of the MOBY
   prototype--such as the linear array detectors--consist of old
   technology, but the new MOBYs will be state-of-the-art. "Since the
   beginning of this project, most of our resources have gone into
   hardware," Clark explains, "forcing us to use a small development team
   (three people). Given the funding profile of the 1980s, this project
   could never have come to fruition without using an incremental
   development approach."

   Yet, the integration and testing process greatly accelerated with the
   infusion of SeaWiFS funds in 1991. "I've never tried to push any system
   into use as fast as the MOBY system," Yarbrough states. "For economic
   reasons you want to get things done as fast as possible. Yet for
   scientific purposes, the longer you use a system, testing it and
   gaining experience with it, the more reliable it is. It's been a
   continuous balancing act." The compromise is evident in the Team's work
   schedule; 14-and 16-hour work days are not uncommon, even on weekends.

   Developing and deploying MOBY in a timely manner probably couldn't have
   been done without a highly resourceful Team dedicated to the project's
   success. Each MOBY Team member has had to wear many hats, in addition
   to their individual areas of expertise. Yet, resourcefulness is simply
   par for the course to Yarbrough. For example, in 1982 he invented a
   modified CTD (Conductivity, Temperature, and Depth) device that had an
   immediate impact on the way oceanography is conducted. His
   resourcefulness has paid off for the MOBY Project too--he has been
   responsible for the final integration of all the components in the MOBY
   system.

   Although there have been setbacks along the way, the MOBY/MOCE Teams
   now seem poised to begin enjoying the fruits of their labors. "We're
   making an effort to provide accurate data and analyses of the
   biological state of the oceans from an optical standpoint," Clark
   concludes. "If that database isn't there, you can never formulate
   analyses which accurately evaluate bio-optical processes or the impact
   of man's intervention on those processes."

   The following is an alphabetical list of the MOBY/MOCE field campaign
   principal contributors:

   James Brown University of Miami

   Charles Trees RSMAS San Diego State University Center for Hydro-Optics
   and Remote Sensing

   Dennis Clark NOAA NESDIS

   Ken Voss University of Miami

   Michael Feinholz MLML

   Mark Yarbrough MLML

   Stanford Hooker NASA GSFC
     __________________________________________________________________

   [tech_memo_icon.gif] SeaWiFS Project Technical Report Series
     __________________________________________________________________

   [biosphere_globe_icon_clear.gif] SeaWiFS Project Home Page
