http://www.oha.doe.gov/cases/ee/vee0075.htm

                               Case No. VEE-0075

     November 3, 2000

     DECISION AND ORDER

     OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS

     Application for Exception

     Case Name: Viking Range Corporation

     Date of Filing: June 16, 2000

     Case Number: VEE-0075

     This Decision and Order considers an Application for Exception filed
     by Viking Range Corporation (Viking) seeking exception relief from
     the provisions of 10 C.F.R. Part 430, Energy Conservation Program
     for Consumer Products: Energy Conservation Standards for
     Refrigerators, Refrigerator-Freezers and Freezers (Refrigerator
     Efficiency Standards). In its exception request, Viking asserts that
     the firm would suffer a serious hardship and an unfair distribution
     of burdens if required to adhere to the Refrigerator Efficiency
     Standards that become effective July 1, 2001, codified at 10 C.F.R.
     § 430.32. If Viking's Application for Exception were granted, Viking
     would receive a twelve-month extension for compliance with the
     energy efficiency standards applicable to the firm's built-in
     refrigerator line. As set forth in this Decision and Order, we have
     concluded that Viking's Application for Exception should be granted
     in part.

I. Background

  A. Refrigerator Efficiency Standards

     The Refrigerator Efficiency Standards, 10 C.F.R. Part 430, were
     published as a final rule by Department of Energy (DOE) on April 28,
     1997, 62 Fed. Reg. 23102, as mandated by Congress in Part B of Title
     III of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C.
     §§ 6291-6309 (EPCA). In the EPCA, Congress directed that DOE review
     and revise energy conservation standards applicable to refrigerator
     products, promulgated by the agency in 1989, 54 Fed. Reg. 47916
     (November 17, 1989). EPCA, § 325(b)(3)(B), 42 U.S.C. §
     6295(b)(3)(B). The new Refrigerator Efficiency Standards were
     designed to reduce energy use in classes of refrigerator products by
     up to 30 percent relative to the prior standards, and thereby reduce
     consumer costs as well as emissions of air pollutants associated
     with electricity production.^ (1) The Refrigerator Efficiency
     Standards become effective July 1, 2001.

  B. The Present Proceeding

    (1) Application for Exception

     Viking markets a diverse line of kitchen appliances for cooking,
     cleanup and refrigeration. Viking initially specialized only in the
     manufacture of cooking ranges. However, in 1995, Viking decided to
     enter the built-in refrigerator market in order to offer consumers a
     more complete product line for kitchen redesign. Upon entering the
     refrigerator industry, Viking business practice was to "source" its
     built-in refrigerator products from other manufacturers and label
     them for sale under its own brand name. In 1997, Viking began
     sourcing its built-in refrigerators from Whirlpool Corporation
     (Whirlpool), which continued until Whirlpool terminated its sourcing
     agreement with Viking in September 1999. Viking then began sourcing
     its built-in refrigerators from Amana Appliances (Amana). However,
     in late 1999, Amana was acquired by Goodman Manufacturing, L.P., and
     soon thereafter, Amana announced its intention to end its production
     of built-in refrigerators. Thus, seeking to preserve its built-in
     refrigerator business, Viking made the decision to purchase Amana's
     built-in refrigerator production equipment and to manufacture its
     own refrigerators. After a period of negotiations, Viking acquired
     Amana's built-in refrigerator manufacturing line in April 2000, and
     moved the production equipment from Iowa to Viking's facilities
     located in Greenwood, Mississippi. Viking began producing its own
     built-in refrigerators in August 2000.

     Viking now claims in its Application for Exception, however, the
     firm would suffer a serious hardship and unfair distribution of
     burdens if required to adhere to the July 1, 2001 effective date of
     the revised Refrigerator Efficiency Standards, 10 C.F.R. § 430.32,
     in its manufacture of built-in refrigerators. Viking maintains that
     the firm does not have sufficient time before the effective date of
     the Refrigerator Efficiency Standards to redesign and retool its
     product line to meet the more energy restrictive standards.
     According to Viking, the built-in refrigerator design acquired from
     Amana only marginally meets the present refrigerator energy
     efficiency standards, adopted in 1993. Viking therefore asserts that
     substantial engineering and testing will be required to develop a
     compliant cabinet design, and the firm must construct or acquire
     suitable laboratory test facilities before this redesign work can
     proceed. Based upon estimated lead time necessary for retooling the
     line, Viking projects that the firm will be unable to begin pilot
     production of compliant built-in refrigerators until May 2002.
     Viking therefore requests exception relief in the form of a
     twelve-month extension to comply with the July 1, 2001 revised
     standards.

    (2) Comments and Response

     Following the receipt of Viking's Application, we received comments
     from interested parties^ (2) regarding the bases for Viking's
     exception request. Some of these comments are supportive of Viking's
     request for exception relief. However, Viking's competitors in the
     relatively small built-in refrigerator industry raised issues in
     opposition to Viking's claims. These competitors include Sub-Zero
     Freezer Co., Inc. (Sub-Zero), which accounts for the predominant
     share of the built-in refrigerator market, GE Appliances (GE) and
     Whirlpool Corporation (Whirlpool). The principal issues raised by
     these commenters are summarized below.

     Serious Hardship. With respect to Viking's claim of serious
     hardship, the commenters assert that it is inappropriate to grant
     Viking exception relief to insulate the firm from its own conscious
     business decision to acquire the built-in refrigerator line from
     Amana. Whirlpool and GE assert that Viking was certainly aware that
     the redesign work was necessary to comply with the July 2001
     efficiency standards. Indeed, Whirlpool and GE charge that the lack
     of redesign work undoubtedly figured into Viking's negotiated price
     for the Amana line, and Viking would therefore receive an unfair
     windfall if granted exception relief from the revised standards that
     the remainder of the industry must comply with.

     Unfair Distribution of Burdens. Commenters also dispute Viking's
     claim that the firm will incur an unfair distribution of burdens if
     required to meet the new efficiency standards. While it is noted
     that Viking may account for less than .05% of total refrigerator
     sales in the United States, Viking accounts for a greater portion of
     built-in refrigerator sales. In any event, it is argued that Viking
     is in no worse position than many other small manufacturers doing
     business in the refrigerator industry that are also required to meet
     the revised standards. In this regard, Sub-Zero, one of Viking's
     direct competitors in the built-in refrigerator line, filed comments
     contesting Viking's claim for exception relief. Sub-Zero agrees, as
     a small manufacturer, that the redesign costs are burdensome but
     asserts "as a competitor, we would expect that DOE would be
     sensitive to the issue of fair and equitable treatment of all small
     manufacturers." Sub-Zero Comments (filed August 9, 2000) at 1.
     Moreover, Sub-Zero submits that Viking "does have financial backing
     of a large corporation to draw upon." Id. at 2.

     Concerning Viking's expenditures to move the built-in refrigerator
     manufacturing operations to Greenwood, MS, it is similarly argued by
     its competitors that any hardship is attributable to a conscious
     business decision by Viking. GE asserts that until its acquisition
     of Amana's built-in product line, it was Viking's business practice
     to "source" refrigerator products from other manufacturers and label
     them with its own brand. GE maintains that Viking could "source" its
     built-in refrigerator line until its own redesign work is complete.

     Competitive Advantage. Commenters further argue that if exception
     relief were approved, Viking would improperly receive a substantial
     competitive advantage resulting in increased market share in this
     highly competitive industry. As noted by Whirlpool and GE, other
     manufacturers will be required to pass through their redesign costs
     in the prices of refrigerators meeting the July 1, 2001 standards,
     while at the same time these refrigerators will necessarily be
     smaller in interior capacity. Thus GE claims that, during the
     one-year period of exception relief, Viking "would be given a
     marketing advantage to sell out-moded, but larger, units at a higher
     price . . . [and] a competitive advantage because every compliance
     dollar that Viking saves can be spent on sales-enhancing features
     and advertising." GE Comments (filed August 11, 2000) at 4.

     On September 8, 2000, Viking filed a Response to matters raised in
     the comments. Concerning its claim of hardship, Viking maintains
     that the sale/purchase of Amana's built-in refrigerator product line
     was "as is" and "[a]bsolutely no consideration was given in the
     purchase price as a result of the status of compliance with the 2001
     energy standards." Response at 2. Thus Viking asserts that the firm
     will receive no "windfall" by the approval of exception relief, in
     view of the substantial investment the firm must make to bring into
     production a redesigned built-in model meeting the revised
     efficiency standards.

     Viking further reasserts its claim that the firm will suffer an
     unfair distribution of burdens in the absence of exception relief.
     According to the firm, Viking is a relatively small company with its
     built-in refrigerator sales accounting for only .05% of the total
     U.S. residential refrigeration market and 2.4% of the built-in
     refrigeration market. Viking asserts that the firm made the decision
     to purchase Amana's built-in refrigeration line as a matter of
     survival after being informed by Amana in late 1999 that it would no
     longer source its refrigerators from Amana and "there is no other
     alternative for sourced supply of built-in refrigerators to Viking
     Range." Response at 3. Viking contends that failure to grant the
     requested exception relief "would effectively remove Viking Range as
     a competitor from the built-in refrigeration market, thereby
     reducing competition in a product category where competition is
     already greatly limited . . . ." Id. In addition, Viking maintains
     that the firm will have no significant competitive advantage if
     exception relief were approved due to the small, specialized nature
     of its market position. Finally, Viking argues that the firm will
     have no cost advantage since it is currently investing the capital
     necessary to redesign its built-in refrigerator product line.

     On September 28, 2000, we convened a conference (10 C.F.R. §
     1003.61) upon the request of Viking to further discuss the issues
     underlying the firm's Application for Exception. Finally, on October
     10, 2000, Viking submitted other additional information and
     documentation clarifying key matters discussed at the conference.

  C. Standard for Exception Relief

     In promulgating the final rule of the Part 430 regulations, the
     agency stated as follows with regard to Applications for Exception
     relief:

     Section 504 of the Department of Energy Organization Act authorizes
     DOE to make adjustments of any rule or order issued under the Energy
     Policy and Conservation Act, consistent with the other purposes of
     the Act, if necessary to prevent special hardship, inequity, or
     unfair distribution of burdens. 42 U.S.C. § 7194(a).

     . . .

     In exercising its authority under section 504, DOE may grant an
     exception from an efficiency standard for a limited time, and may
     place other conditions on the grant of an exception.

     DOE will require an application for exception to provide specific
     facts and information relevant to the claim that compliance would
     cause special hardship, inequity or an unfair distribution of
     burdens.

     62 Fed. Reg. at 23108-09. Prior decisions of this office as well as
     the courts clearly place the burden upon the applicant to establish
     the basis for its claim for exception relief from DOE regulatory
     provisions. See, e.g, Amana Appliances, 27 DOE ¶ 81,006 (1999);
     Whirlpool Corp., 14 DOE ¶ 81,023 (1986); White Consolidated, Inc.,
     13 DOE ¶ 81,045 (1985); Exxon Corp. v. Department of Energy, 802
     F.2d 1400, 1407-08 (Temp. Emer. Ct. App. 1986) ("great deference"
     accorded to agency in applying standards for exception relief); City
     of Long Beach v. Department of Energy, 754 F.2d 379, 386 (Temp.
     Emer. Ct. App. 1985).

II. Analysis

     We have carefully considered the Application for Exception filed by
     Viking, the comments of interested parties, Viking's response to
     those comments as well as the additional information provided by the
     firm. On the basis of the record before us and the standards
     governing the approval of exception relief set forth above, we have
     concluded that Viking's Application for Exception should be granted
     in part. For the reasons set forth below, we are persuaded that
     Viking would suffer an unfair distribution of burdens^ (3) if
     required to adhere strictly to the July 1, 2001 effective date of
     the Refrigerator Efficiency Standards. More specifically, we have
     determined that Viking will be granted a six-month extension, until
     January 1, 2002, for compliance with the Refrigerator Efficiency
     Standards.

     Prior to discussing the factors leading to our determination, we
     must first address the contention raised by commenters that it is
     inappropriate to grant Viking exception relief to insulate the firm
     from its business decision to enter the refrigerator manufacturing
     business, having full view of the July 1, 2001 efficiency standards
     on the horizon. It is well-settled in prior decisions of this office
     that a firm may not receive exception relief to alleviate a burden
     attributable to a discretionary business decision rather than the
     impact of DOE regulations. See, e.g., Big Muddy Oil Processors,
     Inc., 12 DOE ¶ 81,006 at 82,521 (1984); 341 Tract Unit of the
     Citronelle Field: Exxon Co., USA, et al., 10 DOE ¶ 81,027 at
     82,649-50 (1983). Having examined the unique circumstances of this
     case, however, we have concluded that Viking should not be precluded
     from exception relief on this basis.

     Viking has established that rather than merely a discretionary
     business decision, the firm's acquisition of Amana's built-in
     refrigerator manufacturing line was a matter of business survival
     and reflected the most prudent option available to the firm at that
     time. The built-in refrigerator industry is both small and
     specialized and, consequently, Viking's options for sourcing from
     other manufacturers are very limited. Viking states that it has
     approached Sub-Zero on a number of occasions since entering the
     built-in refrigerator market, but Sub-Zero has consistently refused
     to supply refrigerator products to any company. Similarly, another
     potential manufacturer, Kolpak, has been unwilling to source product
     to Viking due to Kolpak's exclusive sourcing arrangement with GE.
     Finally, as noted in its exception application, Whirlpool terminated
     its sourcing agreement with Viking in September 1999 and soon
     thereafter, Amana informed Viking that it would cease to produce
     built-in refrigerators altogether. The situation that Viking found
     itself in late 1999 was certainly not of its own making since the
     firm was not in control of decisions made by Whirlpool and Amana.
     Instead, Viking was forced by circumstances to make an immediate
     decision whether to leave the built-in refrigerator industry or
     purchase Amana's production equipment and begin manufacturing its
     own refrigerators.

     We agree with Viking that its decision to acquire Amana's production
     line was a prudent one. Viking has explained that it is critical for
     the firm to be able to offer a built-in refrigerator^ (4) as part of
     its product line since it is an integral part of the kitchen design
     concept which it offers consumers. Indeed, Viking submits that sales
     of its other kitchen products could suffer if it were not able to
     offer built-in refrigerators as part of its kitchen redesign
     package, since many consumers in this niche market place a premium
     on their appliances having a uniform appearance.

     We have therefore determined that Viking's purchase of the Amana
     line did not constitute the type of discretionary business decision
     that would bar our consideration of the firm's request for exception
     relief. We now turn to the factors that have led us to conclude that
     limited exception relief should be approved.

  (1) Factors Supporting Exception Relief

     Section 325 of the EPCA directs the agency to evaluate seven factors
     in formulating the conservation standard that was ultimately
     incorporated into the Refrigerator Efficiency Standards, 10 C.F.R.
     Part 430: economic impact on the manufacturers and consumers, net
     consumer savings, energy savings, impacts on product utility, impact
     on competition, need for energy conservation, and other relevant
     factors. EPCA § 325(o)(2)(B)(I), 42 U.S.C. § 6295(o)(2)(B)(I); see
     62 Fed. Reg. at 23106. While these factors were considered by the
     agency in promulgating a conservation standard for the refrigerator
     industry at large, we believe that these same factors are useful in
     our evaluation of Viking's claim for exception relief. As set forth
     below, we have concluded that when these factors are weighed and
     balanced, the July 1, 2001 effective date of the Refrigerator
     Efficiency Standards results in an unfair distribution of burdens as
     applied to Viking under the unique circumstances of this case.

     With regard to economic impact, the record supports Viking's claim
     that the firm will be unable to complete the required redesign and
     retooling of its built-in refrigerator line to meet the July 1, 2001
     effective date of the new standards.^ (5) Viking has provided a
     detailed timetable, with best and worse case scenarios, showing the
     steps necessary before comporting built-in refrigerators can be
     brought into production by the firm. The commenters, including those
     in opposition to exception relief, do not dispute Viking's
     assessment that substantial lead time is required to bring into
     production refrigerators meeting the new efficiency standards. It is
     apparent from the comments as well as the record in a related
     proceeding that other refrigerator manufacturers began redesign work
     early in 1999, to meet the July 1, 2001 deadline. See Amana
     Appliances, 27 DOE ¶ 81,006 (1999). Indeed, the July 1, 2001
     effective date adopted by the agency was based upon its recognition
     that apart from a substantial capital investment, the industry
     required a considerable amount of lead time to meet the important
     energy conservation goals of the regulations. See 62 Fed. Reg. at
     23108. We therefore accept Viking's claim that in the absence of
     exception relief, the firm will be required to shut down its
     built-in refrigerator manufacturing line pending completion of
     redesign and retooling. Such a shutdown would severely jeopardize
     Viking's small share of the niche built-in refrigerator market and
     have a collateral negative impact upon its sales of other products
     since the firm would then be unable to offer a complete line of
     kitchen appliances.

     With respect to consumer cost and energy consumption, we believe
     that the potential savings would be insubstantial in comparison to
     the damaging impact upon Viking's business if exception relief were
     denied. In adopting the Refrigerator Efficiency Standards, the
     agency noted that there will initially be price increases in
     virtually all classes of refrigerators reflecting re-engineering
     costs passed through by manufacturers, but there will be net cost
     savings to consumers over the life-cycle of the more energy
     efficient refrigerators as a result of cumulative energy cost
     savings. See 62 Fed. Reg. at 23109-10. We believe that the exception
     relief approved in this decision will have minimal impact on these
     national energy conservation objectives based upon Viking's small
     market share. Built-in refrigerators comprise only a small
     percentage (a little more than 1 percent) of the total refrigerator
     market and Viking's sales represent only 2.4 percent of the built-in
     refrigerator market. Thus, Viking calculates that of the total U.S.
     residential refrigeration market, the firm accounts for only .05
     percent of refrigerator sales.^ (6) In any event, consumers will
     have a choice whether to purchase Viking refrigerators during the
     six-month period of exception relief or more energy efficient
     built-in refrigerator model, since the energy efficiencies must be
     clearly labeled on all models.

     For similar reasons, we do not believe that there will be a
     substantial impact upon competition in the built-in refrigerator
     market. GE argues that during the period of exception relief, Viking
     will have a competitive advantage since Viking will be able to offer
     a lower cost built-in refrigerator, that is also larger in interior
     volume capacity under the old energy efficiency standards. We find,
     however, that the competitive impact of Viking's alleged cost/price
     advantage and interior volume advantage is speculative. Viking is
     currently incurring substantial re-engineering costs as the firm
     works to develop a built-in refrigerator conforming to the
     Refrigerator Efficiency Standards, and the firm will likely deem it
     necessary to pass through a portion of these costs in the prices of
     its refrigerators sold during the exception relief period. Moreover,
     Viking's cost per unit of production is likely higher than its
     larger competitors that produce a greater volume of built-in
     refrigerators, due the inherent economies of scale. Finally, while
     some consumers may find the incrementally greater volume capacity of
     the older model refrigerator attractive, we believe that many
     consumers will also be drawn to the greater energy efficiency and
     cost savings of the newer models.^ (7) In sum, we believe that there
     is an appreciably greater risk of negative impact upon competition
     (and consumer choice) in the built-in refrigerator industry if
     Viking were forced to withdraw from this select market with few
     competitors, than may result from any competitive advantage Viking
     might experience during the short period of exception relief.

  (2) Exception Relief

     Accordingly, we have concluded that Viking's Application for
     Exception should be granted in part. We do not believe, however,
     that Viking should be granted the full twelve months of exception
     relief from the July 1, 2001 effective date of the Refrigerator
     Efficiency Standards as requested by the firm. As an outgrowth of
     our conference with Viking, we requested that Viking provide an
     updated projection, with best case and worse case scenarios, of the
     firm's timetable for completing the necessary redesign and retooling
     of its built-in refrigerator line. In response to our request,
     Viking submitted confidential information showing step-by-step that
     under the best case scenario, with no setbacks under a very
     aggressive schedule, the firm may be able to begin production of
     conforming built-in refrigerator models as early as December 2001.
     Under Viking's worse case scenario, production of conforming models
     would not begin until July 2002.

     It is apparent that Viking requested twelve months of exception
     relief in order to afford the firm sufficient time to meet all
     contingencies under the worse case scenario. However, we believe at
     this time that Viking should only be granted the minimum amount of
     exception relief necessary to alleviate the undue burden confronting
     the firm. See, e.g., Cincinnati Gas & Electric, 27 DOE ¶ 80,138
     (1998). Such minimal exception relief is consistent with the energy
     conservation goals of the Part 430 regulations, while giving Viking
     due incentive to achieve compliance as soon as practicable. We will
     therefore grant Viking six months exception relief from the July 1,
     2001 effective date of the Refrigerator Efficiency Standards, until
     January 1, 2002, to begin production of built-in refrigerators
     conforming to the revised efficiency standards set forth in 10
     C.F.R. § 430.32. If this relief should prove to be insufficient,
     Viking may file a request for extension of exception relief by not
     later than September 1, 2001. In such request, Viking must fully
     explain and document why additional time is necessary.

     It Is Therefore Ordered That:

     (1) The Application filed by Viking Range Corporation (Viking) on
     June 16, 2000, is hereby granted as set forth in paragraphs (2) and
     (3) below, and in all other respects denied.

     (2) Viking is granted an extension of six months until January 1,
     2002, to comply with the energy efficiency standards applicable to
     refrigerator/freezers, set forth in 10 C.F.R. § 430.32 (effective
     July 1, 2001), in the firm's manufacture and sale of built-in
     refrigerators.

     (3) In the event, the relief granted in paragraph (2) above is
     insufficient to enable Viking to bring into production built-in
     refrigerators conforming to 10 C.F.R. § 430.32, Viking may file a
     request for extension of exception relief by not later than
     September 1, 2001. Such request must clearly set forth the basis for
     Viking's claim for additional exception relief as well as the scope
     of the relief requested.

     (4) Any person aggrieved by this Decision and Order may file an
     appeal with the Office of Hearings and Appeals within thirty (30)
     days of service, in accordance with the procedures set forth in 10
     C.F.R. Part 1003, Subpart C. Any person aggrieved or adversely
     affected by the denial of exception relief in this Decision and
     Order may file an appeal to the Federal Energy Regulatory
     Commission, in accordance with the procedural regulations of that
     agency.

     George B. Breznay

     Director

     Office of Hearings and Appeals

     Date: November 3, 2000

     1. 1/ For each of eighteen classes of refrigerator products, the
     Refrigerator Efficiency Standards establish energy efficiency
     equations which limit energy usage. These equations are expressed in
     kilowatt-hours per year (kWh/yr). For example, the consumption
     equation for the class of "Refrigerator-Freezers -- automatic
     defrost with top-mounted freezer without through-the-door ice
     service" is a maximum of "9.80AV+276.0," where AV is the "adjusted
     volume" of the particular unit. "Adjusted volume" in turn is defined
     as 1.63 times the freezer volume plus the fresh food volume.

     2. 2/ These interested parties include: 1) GE Appliances, 2)
     Mississippi Economic Council, 3) Northland Corporation, 4) Sub-Zero
     Freezer Co., Inc., 5) W.C. Wood Company, and 6) Whirlpool
     Corporation.

     3. 3/ In its Application for Exception, Viking alternatively claims
     that the firm will suffer a "serious hardship" in the absence of
     exception relief. Under precedents governing the approval of
     exception relief, a claim of "serious hardship" may be established
     only where the applicant is able to show that it would suffer
     irreparable financial injury in the absence of exception relief.
     See, e.g., Adobe Refining Company, 12 DOE ¶ 81,026 at 82,631-33
     (1985). As noted above, certain commenters argue that Viking must
     not be granted exception relief to alleviate the financial burden
     associated with the firm's purchase and relocation of Amana's
     product line, or the financial burden of redesigning and retooling
     its product line. In its Response, however, Viking makes clear that
     the firm is not claiming financial hardship, and is in fact
     proceeding to make the capital investment necessary to develop
     conforming refrigerator products. Response at 3. Instead, Viking is
     claiming that the firm will suffer a disproportionate adverse impact
     in the absence of exception relief since the firm would be required
     to shut down its refrigerator production operations pending
     completion of redesign and retooling. Accordingly, we will focus our
     analysis of Viking's exception application on the firm's claim of
     unfair distribution of burdens.

     4. 4/ Viking offers both a 48 in. wide, side-by-side built-in
     refrigerator/freezer and a 36 in. wide, bottom-mount built-in
     refrigerator/freezer.

     5. 5/ Viking states that only after acquiring the built-in
     refrigerator line from Amana did Viking become aware that Amana had
     begun only preliminary redesign work with respect to its built-in
     refrigerator line. According to Viking, Amana did not fully reveal
     the status of its redesign work during the negotiations due to the
     proprietary nature of this information. Regarding whether Viking was
     compensated for the lack of redesign work, Viking asserts that "the
     sale/purchase of Amana's built-in refrigerator product line, design,
     equipment and tooling was "as is". Absolutely no consideration was
     given in the purchase price as a result of the status of compliance
     with the 2001 energy standards." Response at 2. Viking therefore
     maintains that the firm is in a position similar to its competitors
     and must make the substantial capital investment necessary to design
     conforming built-in refrigerators.

     6. 6/ In hard numbers, Viking states in its Application for
     Exception that the firm has annual sales of approximately 3500 units
     of the approximately 150,000 built-in refrigerators sold industry
     wide, while total domestic sales of all types of refrigerators are
     approximately 8 million units annually. Using these numbers, Viking
     calculates that the firm's sales are .04375% of total refrigerator
     sales in the United States. Viking Application for Exception at 3.

     7. 7/ Viking further points out that the July 1, 2001 effective date
     of the Refrigerator Efficiency Standards applies to new production;
     manufacturers may continue to sell older model "finished goods in
     inventory" even after that date. Viking submits that this works to
     the advantage of its larger competitors (Sub-Zero, GE and Whirlpool)
     since these manufacturers maintain a large finished goods inventory.
     By contrast, Viking states that its production of built-in
     refrigerators is "build-to-order," i.e. to specification upon
     receipt of purchase orders from customers, and thus no finished
     goods inventory is maintained at Viking.
