http://www.usna.usda.gov/publications.html

                            US National Arboretum

   This script file displays the date and time

   Your browser is either not set/configured to read script files or
   cannot read them.

   This script creates drop-down menus for each of the 6 buttons. If you
   click on a button you will be taken to that section's list of options,
   equivalent to the drop-down menus.

   Arboretum Information submenu Events and Education submenu Gardens and
   Horticulture submenu Research Activities submenu Support the Arboretum
                  submenu Click Here to Search our Site !!

                                PUBLICATIONS

   The U.S. National Arboretum has an assortment of extra publications
   that we would like to share with you!  The cost for any or all of the
   publications is $3.00 which covers shipping and handling charges.  To
   access the order form, click here.

   The following publications are available:

   International Checklist of Cultivated Ilex - Part One (Ilex opaca)
   (1973)
   The Japanese Flowering Cherry Trees of Washington, D.C. (1977)
   International Checklist of Cultivated Ilex - Part Two (Ilex crenata)
   (1992)
   A Catalog of Cultivated Woody Plants of the Southeastern United States
   (1994)
   A Checklist of Pyracantha Cultivars (1995)
   A Growing Experience with Herbs (1998)





   Cover of the International Checklist of Cultivated Ilex, Part 1

   U. S. National Arboretum, International Checklist of Cultivated Ilex,
   Part 1:  Ilex opaca (U.S. Government Printing Office:  United States
   National Arboretum Contribution Number 3, 1973)

   In cooperation with the Holly Society of America, Inc., Arboretum staff
   created this authoritative checklist.  It is a result of a thorough
   search and analysis of names and pertinent data in commercial,
   horticultural, and botanical literature.  Authentic living materials
   and herbarium specimens were also examined.  Part I describes more than
   1,000 named cultivars of our widely grown native American holly (I.
   opaca). Order this publication





   Cover of the Japanese Flowering Cherry Trees of Washington, D.C.

   Roland M. Jefferson and Alan E. Fusonie, The Japanese Flowering Cherry
   Trees of Washington, D.C. (U.S. Government Printing Office:  United
   States National Arboretum Contribution Number 4, 1977)

   The Japanese flowering cherries of Washington, D.C., are world famous,
   and the general facts of their Japanese origins are well known to most
   people.  However, the intimate details as to how the trees came to
   Washington have often been confused or reported on incompletely.

   This publication clarifies the story of the introduction of the
   Japanese flowering cherries and describes the drama associated with
   their development. Order this publication






   Cover of the International Checklist of Cultivated Ilex, Part 2

   T.R. Dudley and G.K. Eisenbeiss, International Checklist of Cultivated
   Ilex, Part 2:  Ilex crenata Thunberg ex J.A. Murray (U.S. Government
   Printing Office:  United States National Arboretum Contribution Number
   6, 1992)

   Ilex crenata is one of the most important landscape and nursery plants
   in the United States.  This comprehensive international checklist is
   the first publication to document all of the cultivars and wild-origin
   variants of Ilex crenata.  Introductory sections contain the
   following:  a detailed morphological description of the species; an
   evaluation of its current status; cultural, nomenclatural, and
   taxonomic histories; an explanation of the format; and the technical
   bases for validation of cultivar names in accordance with the
   "International Code of Nomenclature for Cultivated Plants1980."  Order
   this publication






   Cover of the Catalog of Cultivated Woody Plants Frederick G. Meyer,
   Peter M. Mazzeo, and Donald H. Voss, A Catalog of Cultivated Woody
   Plants of the Southeastern United States (U.S. Government Printing
   Office:  United States National Arboretum Contribution Number 7, 1994)

   This catalog represents the culmination of more than 20 years of field
   work begun in 1967 that covers 13 southeastern states and the District
   of Columbia.  The catalog has been prepared as a reference guide for
   nurseries, landscape architects, horticulturists, botanical and
   horticultural libraries, botanists, extension agents, educators,
   germplasm conservators, botanical gardens and arboreta, propagators,
   students, plant societies, and various units for the Department of
   Agriculture.  It will be useful not only in the southeastern states,
   but also in other parts of the United States where many of the plants
   listed can be found in cultivation.

   The catalog is based on more than 14,000 documented voucher specimens
   critically reviewed for correctness of identification and
   nomenclature.  With about 5,000 entries, both botanical and cultivar
   names, the catalog is a comprehensive enumeration of woody plants
   cultivated in the southeastern United States.  Order this publication





   Cover of the Checklist of Pyracantha Cultivars
   Donald R. Egolf and Anne O. Andrick, A Checklist of Pyracantha
   Cultivars (U.S. Government Printing Office:  United States National
   Arboretum Contribution Number 8, 1995)

   The firethorns, Pyracantha, have long been cultivated for their
   attractive flowers and fruits, and some have been grown for their
   evergreen foliage.  This small genus of 10 species has thus far given
   rise to nearly 350 named cultivated forms, which can be found in most
   temperate regions of the world.  Because of the vastness of this array,
   it has been difficult for botanists, horticulturists, and plant
   enthusiasts to keep track of the identity of the various forms.  This
   book will be a great help to those interested in firethorns.  Order
   this publication






   Cover of A Growing Experience with Herbs

   Patricia McGlashan, A Growing Experience with Herbs:  Youth Education
   at the U.S. National Arboretum (1998)

   A Growing Experience with Herbs is an inquiry based science unit
   suitable for elementary and middle school students.  The highlight of
   the unit is a visit to the U.S. National Arboretum.  Three introductory
   lessons provide activities to prepare students for the trip.  Three
   focused activities are intended to help students make the most of their
   visit to the Arboretum.  Follow-up activities are provided for
   evaluating progress and for extending the unit in enjoyable ways.
   Order this publication

        Arboretum logo Back to the Arboretum Home Page Arboretum logo
    Arboretum Information || Events & Education || Gardens & Horticulture
                           || Research Activities
       Support the Arboretum || New Plant Introductions || USDA Plant
                       Hardiness Zone Map || Comments
                               Search Our Site

   Last Updated January 28, 2001
   URL = http://www.usna.usda.gov/Gardens/pestmgmt.html

                                                          narj  RJ at work
