http://www.comda.ca.gov

    California Home Page California Home Page California Governor's Home
    Page

   comdabar.gif (780 bytes)
   Welcome to COMDA's Main Page! COMDA Meetings, Structure, Mission, and
   Programs Exam Information for RDAs, EFs, and RDHs! Information about
   Allowable Duties, CE requirements, and more! How to file a Complaint
   against a Licensee, or about COMDA's services Current and Pending Laws
   and Regulations! Links to local, State, National, and International
   dentistry Websites!


   Sorry, your browser doesn't support Java.

                        comdaheader2.gif (3950 bytes)
   Welcome!  COMDA examines and licenses California dental auxiliaries and
       advises the Dental Board of California on auxiliary issues.  In
    addition to the links above, following is the latest news Graphic of
                               toothpaste tube

                       flexbutton2-05.gif (5314 bytes)
                             Energy Saving Tips

                            Check License Status
                         Frequently Asked Questions

                                    Exams

                            Licensing & Practice
   RDA - The next final filing dates are January 9 for the March Northern
   exam and January 23 for the March Southern exam. Click here for more
   information.

   A new law allows RDA applicants to have only 12 months of qualifying
   experience, rather than 18 months, to apply for examination and
   licensure.

   In addition, candidates who have applications on file July 1, 2002, who
   have not passed BOTH examinations by that date will also have to take
   Board-approved courses in coronal polishing and radiation safety before
   a license will be issued.

   RDH - The next exams will be held in the Summer of 2002.   Click here
   for more information.

   EF - The next exams are in May, 2002.  Click here for more information.
   Process your Renewal and Address Changes Online! You can also request a
   replacement pocket card online.  Both renewals and replacement pocket
   cards must be paid for by credit card.

   Required Courses for RDAs by 2005 - by January 1, 2005, all RDAs who
   have not previously done so must submit certification to COMDA of
   having successfully completed a Board-approved course in both coronal
   polishing and radiation safety.

   Failure to do so will result in non-renewal of the license, and the
   person will be unable to practice until the requirements are met.

   Allowable duty changes - RDA's allowed to apply and activate bleaching
   agents with a non-laser light-curing device, and intra-orally fabricate
   temporary crowns.

   RDH's now allowed to irrigate subgingivally with antimicrobial and/or
   antibiotic liquid solutions.

   RDAEF's and RDHEF's now allowed to remove excess cement from
   subgingival tooth surfaces with a hand instrument, and apply etchant
   for bonding restorative materials.

   Click here for a PDF version of a printable Table of Allowable Duties

                                  Meetings

                                Miscellaneous
   RDH Exam Subcommittee to meet January 26 in Los Angeles

   COMDA to meet Thursday, January 24 in Sacramento

   EF Exam Subcommittee met December 2 in San Francisco

   RDA Exam Subcommittee met January 6 in Ontario


   Tell us how to improve....send us an e-mail telling us how to make our
   pages easier to navigate, or information that should be included!
   Thanks for your input!
   Click here for COMDA's 2000 Sunset Review Report in PDF format.  This
   report is required to be submitted to the Legislature periodically to
   continue COMDA's existence.  Legislative hearings on both COMDA and the
   Dental Board were held in December and April, and SB134 introduced and
   signed by the Governor to continue both agencies for 2 years.
     * Department of Consumer Affairs Sunset Report - Introduction
     * Department of Consumer Affairs Sunset Report - COMDA
     * Department of Consumer Affairs Sunset Report - Dental Board.
     * Joint Legislative Sunset Review Committee Final - COMDA
     * Joint Legislative Sunset Review Committee Final - Board

                  Conditions of Use         Privacy Policy

               1428 Howe Ave., Ste. 58,Sacramento, CA   95825
                 Phone: (916) 263-2595  FAX: (916) 263-2709
