http://www.ntia.doc.gov

   NTIA Logo

                   National Telecommunications and Information Administration

        U.S. Department of Commerce  - 1401 Constitution Ave. N.W. -
                   Washington, D.C. 20230 - (202) 482-7002

   Text-only version of this page

   Find major sections and subjects on this site The most recent additions
   to this site will also be posted here Background Information on NTIA
   NTIA's reports, FCC filings Press releases, Media advisories NTIA's
   privacy notice for this site Search engine for NTIA's Web site

    |  Office of Assistant Secretary
    |  Policy Analysis and Development  |  International Affairs  |
   Spectrum Management  |  Grants Programs  |  Telecom Research Lab  |
     * NTIA has published Special Publication 01-48, Alternative
       Frequencies for Use by Public Safety Systems, its report as part of
       a joint submission to the Congress by NTIA and the Federal
       Communications Commission regarding alternative frequencies for use
       by state and local public safety agencies. [Report in WordPerfect
       format (1MB)] The FCC's companion report in .pdf format.
     * Assistant Secretary Nancy J. Victory spoke to the Broadband Outlook
       2002 Conference on "The New Medium for a New Media?"
     * Comments received in Docket No. 011109273-1273-01 proceeding,
       Deployment of Broadband Networks and Advanced Telecommunications.
     * The Technology Opportunities Program (TOP) Fiscal Year 2002 Notice
       of Solicitation of Grant Applications was released on December 6.
       The Application Kit for FY 2002, including Notice and Guidelines,
       provides information on the program, rules for applying,
       suggestions for preparing an application, and the standard forms
       needed to prepare a TOP application. The deadline for applications
       is March 21, 2002.
     * The Public Telecommunications Facilities Program (PTFP) issued its
       Notice announcing the FY 2002 grant competition. The application
       deadline is set for February 5, 2002.

     * Information on Management of Internet Names and Addresses.
     * NTIA Staff Directory & Contact Information and Org Chart
     * FOIA Information

   This page is Bobby approved

   Accessibility Info

    This page is maintained by the NTIA Office of Policy Coordination and
      Management. Please send comments, questions, and suggestions to:
                           webmaster@ntia.doc.gov

                             Go to DOC homepage

   . 3G Wireless Info
   Digital Divide Web site
   NTIA's Critical Infrastructure Assurance Program
