http://www.pugetsound.med.va.gov

   Wednesday, January 30, 2002 Home  |  Search  |  Site Map  |  Text Only
                               Version  |  Visitor Center

                                 [logo.gif]

           American Lake  |  Seattle  |  University of Washington

   [about.gif]
   Appointments
   Clinician's Corner
   Contact Us
   Departments, Programs and Services
   Are You Eligible?
   Employment
   Find popular links!
   News
   Professional Nursing
   Outreach Clinic Schedule
   Get Patient Care
   Find Out How To Order Your Prescriptions
   Office of Public Affairs
   Research Projects and Activities




   Assurance of Veterans Preference Sought For DOT  Security Screeners

   Congressman Lane Evans (D-IL) is seeking assurance from the Department
   of Transportation (DOT) that preference for hiring veterans for
   security screener positions, as specified in the Transportation
   Security Act of 2001, will be implemented.

   IDHD QUERI -
   New Addition To HSR&D

   The Quality Enhancement Research Initiative (QUERI) for Ischemic Heart
   Disease Research Initiative has made available research highlights,
   provided abstracts from current and past research projects, and
   summarized specific study results.

   Bone Marrow Transplant Unit [mtu06.jpg]

   VA Puget Sound announces it's new web site for the Bone Marrow
   Transplant Unit.  This site contains information about the Transplant
   Program at VA Puget Sound, as well as providing information and
   education to veterans who which to know more about the transplant
   procedure.

   Advance Directives

   VA Puget Sound is mailing information to all serviced patients on the
   subject of Advance Directives.  This publication is designed to provide
   information to patients and their family members on how to prepare
   documents such as the Living Will, that will clearly outline a
   patient's wishes with regard to health care treatment and other
   decisions, in the event that they can no speak for themselves.
   OPM Patriot Website

   OPM announces it is accepting applications for retired civilian
   employees who wish to serve their country after the September 11th
   event.  To register, you must fill out the Federal Re-Employment
   Readiness Form.
                                                                  more ...

   Other Stories


   Overcome Your Symptoms - A Program for People With Chronic Disease.
   This coping strategy class is designed for veterans with chronic
   diseases. Spouses and/or partners are also welcome to attend with the
   veteran.
   Tired of Alcohol Problems?  The University of Washington and the
   Addictions Treatment Center at the VA Puget Sound Health Care System
   Seattle Division are currently part of a national study examining the
   effects of combining two medications and two behavioral treatments to
   reduce alcohol-related problems.  We are seeking veteran and
   non-veteran male and female volunteers ...
   VA Establishes New HIV Center.  In its continuing efforts to provide
   care to more than 20,000 veterans infected with HIV (Human
   Immunodeficiency Virus), the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) has
   announced the creation of the Center of HIV Research Resources located
   at the Palo Alto Health Care System in California.


                       If you have a medical emergency, dial 911.
   If you need an appointment or wish specific patient assistance
   call 1-800-329-8387.
           Eligibility Info
      Apply For VA Benefits
           Contact Patients
                 Directions
      E-Mail Link To Friend
                Emergencies
          Facts and Figures
                      Forms
   Health Benefits Handbook
       Help With This Site
                       Maps
                Newsletters
       Organization Diagram
                    Parking
           Patient Privacy
       Prescription Refills
           Shuttle Schedule
                   VA Links
                Vet Centers
              Veteran Links
                  Webmaster
                 What's New
              Bio-Terrorism
         Letter to Patients
            FAQs on Anthrax


   New Sites
   [vaseal.jpg]

   Bone Marrow Transplant Unit.  VA Puget Sound announces it's new web
   site for the Bone Marrow Transplant Unit.  This site contains
   information about the Transplant Program at VA Puget Sound, as well as
   providing information and education to veterans who which to know more
   about the transplant procedure.
   Women's Veteran Program.  VA Puget Sound introduces it's new Women's
   Veteran Program website.  This site is designed to provide information
   about women's health issues and programs sponsored or offered at VA
   Puget Sound.
   Chaplain Service Website Available.  VA Puget Sound announces a new web
   site for its chaplain services to include points of contact and
   operating hours.

   [firstgov2.gif]


   About Us  |  Accessibility   |  Comments and Suggestions   |
   Copyright  |  Disclaimer
   Privacy and Security Notice  |   Terms of Use  |  VA National Web Site
   |  VISN 20

   1660 South Columbian Way
   Seattle, WA  98108
   1-800-329-8387
