http://wheat.pw.usda.gov

   Other servers

   Query Database

                 Research Interests

                                   User Services

                                                Search Website

                                                              Home

   GrainGenes is a compilation of molecular and phenotypic information on
   wheat, barley, oats, rye, and sugarcane. The project is supported by
   the USDA-ARS Plant Genome Research Program and by the community of
   scientists who are providing the information and reasons to be
   interested in it. Featured_Link

 Sears

       A Tribute to Ernie and Lotti Sears

          Ernie Sears is regarded by many as the "father of wheat cytogenetics".
          This tribute was published to accompany the dedication of the Sears
       Plant Growth Facility at the University of Missouri. Enjoy!

   Hot_Topics

   Barley Yellow Dwarf Disease: Recent Advances and Future Strategies
          International Symposium Announcement
          Organized by CIMMYT. Scheduled for September 1 - 5 in El Batan,
          Mexico

   Results of ITMI Microarray Questionnaire
          From Keith Edwards and Roger Wise.

   ITMI Summer Workshop Announced
          The summer workshop, sponsored by Agriculture and Agri-Food
          Canada will be held at the Sheraton Hotel in Winnipeg, Canada,
          June 1 - 4. Click here for more information (PDF file).

   ITMI Triticeae Repeat Sequence Database, in progress
          Over 100 user-contributed repetitive sequences found in the
          Triticeae, as FASTA files and a BLASTable database. You can
          contribute!

   Wheat Breeding in the New Century: Applying Molecular Genetic Analyses
          of Key Quality and Agronomic Traits
          A special issue of the Australian Journal of Agricultural
          Research, containing results from the Australian National Wheat
          Molecular Marker Program (NWMMP). Abstracts and some articles
          are available online.

   The Barley Newsletter - Volume 44 is now online.
          GrainGenes is pleased to announce the online version of the 44th
          volume of the Barley Newsletter. Click here for this volume, or
          here for a link to all online volumes of the Barley Newsletters
          in the GrainGenes publication collection.

   Results of the ITMI Public Workshop, September 2001 Updated 4 Jan 02
          A Workshop of the International Triticeae Mapping Initiative was
          held September 10-15 in Edinburgh and Dundee, Scotland. The
          Proceedings are being assembled here.

   Call For Contributions for a BAC or YAC library website for the
          Triticeae.
          Click here for more information, or here to view the page in
          progress

   "HarvEST"
          HarvEST is Windows software to query for ESTs that are
          differentially expressed among cDNA libraries. It currently
          contains data from the U.S. wheat EST project and the U.S.
          barley EST project. The authors, Steve Wanamaker and Tim Close,
          will be available for discussion at the Dundee portion of the
          upcoming ITMI Workshop.

   The GrainGenes Mapathon is Underway!
          The GrainGenes curator team has organized an all out effort to
          get the database current with recently published mapping
          projects. We are happy to announce the addition of the first new
          maps with dozens more in the "hopper". Click here to see a
          spreadsheet with an update of all planned interactive GrainGenes
          maps.

   Thumbnails of All GrainGenes Images are Now Available
          The GrainGenes database and website contains a rich source of
          images including photos of colleagues, line maps, cytology,
          pathogens and disease symptoms. Browsing is now easier than
          ever! Visit the thumbnail directory at
          http://wheat.pw.usda.gov/ggpages/ggimages.html. Many thanks to
          Nancy Lui for this effort!

   Call to support an English translation of the 1979 Russian taxonomic
          monograph of Triticum by Dorofeev et al.
          Click here for more information.

   Wheat Genes Galore!
          With recent releases of EST data from the International
          Triticeae EST Consortium (ITEC), the USDA/ARS wheat endosperm
          sequencing project and the NSF wheat genome project, wheat now
          ranks 15th among the public entries of EST data according to
          NCBI with over 46,776 sequences as of November 10, 2000.

   Previous Hot Topics
       Suggestions for additions to Hot Topics:
       webmaster@wheat.pw.usda.gov
       E-mail inquiries to: curator@wheat.pw.usda.gov

   This site is optimally viewed in 1024 x 768 resolution using Netscape 4
       or higher
