http://www.lom.med.va.gov

   The scripting for your browser is not enabled or you are using an older
   browser.
   The functionality of this page should not be affected, however, you
   will not be able to see
   all the pictures used to enhance the user experience.

                        Loma Linda VA Medical Center
    Veterans Benefits and Services The image shows two seniors receiving
   assistance with their paperwork. The page contains benefits information
    for veterans and family members on Disability Compensation, Pension,
   Education, Health, Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment Counseling,
      Burial and Memorial, Insurance, Home Loan Guaranty, and Appeals.
       What's New The image shows a hand on a computer mouse. The page
    summarizes what information has been added or updated recently on the
      VA Web site. VA Employee Organiztion The image shows three people
        working together. The page contains general information about
                 government jobs that are available. width=
                     Department of Veterans Affairs Seal
    Partners, Veterans Organizations, and Volunteers The image shows part
      of an American flag waving in a breeze. The page contains general
      information about Veterans Affairs, including mission and vision,
       strategic and capital plans, a history of supporting veterans,
    organizations, programs, job opportunities, office locations, forms,
   publications, and training. Public Affairs and Special Events The image
       shows three folded newspapers. The page contains links to press
      releases, fact sheets, executive biographies, selected speeches,
   Conversations with America, Virtual Conferences, ceremonies, games, and
                                    more!
    Enrollment The image shows a piece of paper being signed with a pen.
    The page contains information and links about enrolling to receive VA
    services. Partners, Veterans Organizations, and Volunteers The image
     shows two hands shaking. The page contains information relating to
       veterans service organizations, state veterans affairs offices,
    business partnership opportunities, and strategic and capital plans.

      Employee Mail  |  Refill Prescriptions  |  Appointment Look-up  |
    Co-payment Balance Look-up  |  Privacy  |  Search  |  Links  |  FOIA
                            |  VA  |  Contact Us
