http://pwa.ars.usda.gov

   USDA Logo ARS Pacific West Area Graphic ARS Logo

   PWA Home Locations Research Programs ARS News Employee Directory  Web
                                                                    Search


   [grbullet.gif] AREA OFFICE LINKS [grbullet.gif]
   Welcome Message
   Director and Staff
   Grants & Agreements
   AGENCY LINKS
   RPES
   Employment
   ARS
   REE
   USDA

   Trout Studies Seek Superior Strains

      At fish geneticist Ken Overturf's lab, research is indeed coming along
      swimmingly. Overturf, perhaps for the first time, has pinpointed
      families of captive rainbow trout that thrive on grain.

      This development could be a boon not only for fish farmers, but also
      for the environment. Geneticist Victor Raboy inspects environmentally
      friendly low-phytate grain that he developed. Photo by Peggy Greb
      That's because most of today's trout feed relies on protein-rich
      fishmeal produced from marine species like anchovy, menhaden, jack
      mackerel, or herring. But substituting grain for fishmeal could help
      reduce the threat of overfishing of these ocean resources. And since
      grain is a less expensive source of protein than fishmeal, grain-fed
      fish should be cheaper to raise. Today, feed is producers' biggest
      expense.

      Other studies under way in Overturf's lab may make a similar splash in
      the world of commercial aquaculture. For example, he's well on the way
      to pinpointing telltale patterns in trout genetic material, or DNA,
      that reveal whether the fish will flourish on grain-based rations.
      Findings from this work may speed and simplify the process of selecting
      out these fish from their hatchery cohorts.

      Overturf works with thousands of sleek, shimmering rainbow trout,
      Oncorhynchus mykiss, at the University of Idaho's Hagerman Fish Culture
      Station in Hagerman, Idaho. He's collaborating with Ronald W. Hardy,
      director at the station. Overturf is assigned to the ARS Small Grains
      and Potato Germplasm Research Unit in Aberdeen, Idaho.

      For the entire article please follow this link:
   Agricultural Research Magazine December 2001 - Vol. 49, No. 12
   Rainbow Trout
   [grbullet.gif] Pacific West Area Articles [grbullet.gif]
   January 2002
   ForumSpeeding Up Breeding of Superior Plants
   December 2001
   Forum - Aquaculture Research is Key to the Future of U.S. Fish Farming
   Trout Studies Seek Superior Strains
   Protecting Poinsettias
   2001 Index
   November 2001
   More Troublesome Water Weeds Targeted by Researchers
   Areawide Pest Management: An Effective Strategy for Many Pests
   Scientists Sharpen Strategies To Sabotage Glassy-Winged Sharpshooter
   October 2001
   Forum - Not Just More . . . But More Nutritious Food
   Food for Thought: Studies Probe Role of Minerals in Brain Function
   Colorful Potatoes Offer Nutrition, Variety
   Keeping Transgenic Pollen in Its Place
   Science Update: Moms-To-Be Also Need Zinc
   Science Update: Raspberries the Color of Coho
   September 2001
   Helping Flowers Fight Soil-Dwelling Foes
   Rosy Outlook for Greenhouse Roses
   Pomegranate - A Backyard Favorite
   Uncovering the Mysteries of Gray Mold
   Science Update
   August 2001
   New Oats and Barleys-Ready for Breakfast, Brewery, or Barn
   Why are dieters so hungry?
   Early Findings Raise Questions About Popular CLA Supplement

   [ Nondiscrimination Statement ] [System Usage Policy ] [ Endorsement
   Disclaimer ]

   All articles are from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Agriculture
   Research Magazine which is published monthly by the Agricultural
   Research Service and also available electronically.

   This page looks best using a resolution of 1024 X 768 with 16 Bit Color
   Page last modifed on: January 23, 2002
   Page Contact: webmaster@pw.ars.usda.gov
