http://www.dfrc.nasa.gov/Projects/PHYSX/index.html

   Skip Top nav bar link group Business Education Employment FOIA Gallery
   News Room Organizations Research Search This is a link to the Site
   Index

   NASA Meatball Banner of Dryden Flight Research Center

   Skip side nav bar link group

   Return to Past Projects

   PHYSX
   blue footer

   white space Home : Research : Past Projects : PHYSX image of gray
   corner
   white space
   PHYSX collage
   The Pegasus Hypersonic experiment consists of a smooth,
   information-gathering "glove" installed on the first-stage wing of a
   Pegasus Space Launch Vehicle, which reached a speed of Mach 8 and an
   altitude of 200,000 feet. The glove was bonded to the right wing and
   wrapped from the underside of wing, over the leading edge and onto the
   upperside, although it did not cover the wing completely.
   The experiment gathered information about how the air flowed over the
   Pegasus wing. Scientists were particularly interested in the transition
   of air from smooth (laminar) to turbulent flow. The goal of the
   experiment was to discover when the airflow over the wing became
   turbulent and why.
   Airflow has a great impact on how hot vehicles get. Turbulent air
   generates a lot of heat because of increased friction, which can cause
   burns on aircraft. The hypersonic X-15 experienced such problems due to
   turbulence-induced friction. In addition, turbulent air creates more
   "drag," slowing down aircraft or making them less efficient.
   Data from the Pegasus glove experiment also included temperature, heat
   transfer and pressure measurements, as well as reconstruction of the
   Pegasus flight path. This experiment provided critical information not
   obtained anywhere else, as wind tunnels here on the ground can't
   adequately simulate both the hypersonic speeds and atmospheric
   conditions the Pegasus booster encounters.
   A secondary goal for the program was to provide engineers with valuable
   experience in instrumenting and testing hypersonic vehicles.
   The Pegasus Hypersonic Experiment was one way that NASA continues to
   meet its goal of achieving revolutionary technology leaps to make
   aerospace programs more affordable. This goal aims to revolutionize the
   way in which aerospace vehicles are designed, built and operated.

Flight Scenario

   The hypersonic glove experiment flew in October 1998. Pegasus' primary
   goal for the mission, which originated from the Cape Canaveral Air
   Force Station, Cape Canaveral, Fla., was to launch a commercial
   satellite payload. Pegasus carried the glove aloft as a secondary
   mission that did not interfere with the launch vehicle's primary
   payload.
   Once the first stage Pegasus booster rocket launched from its L-1011
   mothership, the highly instrumented glove gathered information about
   flight at high speeds and altitudes. Sensors in the glove gathered
   information for about a minute and a half before the first-stage of the
   rocket burned out and was jettisoned.
   All information the glove obtained was transmitted to the ground
   through a radio signal as the glove was not recovered. To make
   transmitting the data possible, engineers at the NASA Langley Research
   Center, Hampton, Va., developed a special data acquisition, compression
   and processing system. In January 1995, Dryden's F-15 aircraft tested
   the system during a series of flights over Edwards Air Force Base,
   Calif.

Glove

   Two Pegasus Hypersonic Experiment gloves were manufactured for the
   program -- one that flew aboard the Pegasus booster rocket and one for
   thermal ground tests. Both gloves were made of nickel-plated steel.
   This is a photo of a load test This is a photo of a testfire

   Click here to view a test firing of the PHYSX glove
   Quicktime Video
   The ground-test glove was mounted on a plywood and fiberglass structure
   for a series of tests that concluded May 30, 1996. The glove was
   painted a flat black to maximize heat absorption. During the tests,
   engineers precooled the glove and heated it in NASA Dryden's Flight
   Loads Laboratory, simulating the heat the glove will experience during
   its first-stage flight profile. The tests revealed that the glove was
   hardy enough to survive the intense heat it experienced while traveling
   at eight times the speed of sound.
   The flight-test glove was mounted on balsa wood and surrounded by a
   drag-reducing thermal protection system structure made of Space Shuttle
   tile material that blended the glove into the wing. NASA Ames Research
   Center, Moffett Field, Calif., supplied the thermal protection system,
   which dissipates heat. The glove was mounted to the Pegasus wing at
   Dryden. The Pegasus booster rocket was secured to its L-1011 launch
   vehicle at the Orbital Sciences Corp.'s Vehicle Assembly Building at
   Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif.
   The glove carried a variety of traditional and high-frequency sensors
   capable of functioning during the flight conditions the Pegasus rocket
   will experience. The sensors gave engineers a variety of information
   like acceleration, air flow, pressure, temperature and strain. Many of
   these sensors were evaluated in July 1994 aboard an earlier Pegasus
   mission. The mission verified that the sensors do not interfere with
   the airflow over the Pegasus wing and that the vibrations the sensors
   will experience during flight will not interfere with obtaining
   accurate data.

Roles and Responsibilities

   PHYSX Logo Dryden provided overall management of the glove experiment,
   glove design and buildup. Dryden was responsible for conducting the
   flight tests. Langley was responsible for the design of the aerodynamic
   glove as well as development of sensor and instrumentation systems for
   the glove. Other participating NASA centers included Ames; Goddard
   Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Md.; and Kennedy Space Center, Fla.
   Orbital Sciences Corporation, Dulles, Va., was the manufacturer of the
   Pegasus vehicle, while Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif. serves as a
   prelaunch assembly facility.

Pegasus Background

   First flown in 1990, Orbital Sciences Corp.'s Pegasus rocket supports a
   wide range of missions, including space technology validation, earth
   science and space physics experiments, hypersonic flight research,
   earth imaging, communications and planetary exploration. The
   three-stage Pegasus launch vehicle is carried aloft by the
   company-owned L-1011 "Stargazer" aircraft to a point approximately
   40,000 feet over open ocean areas, where it is released and then
   free-falls in a horizontal position for five seconds before igniting
   its first stage rocket motor. With the aerodynamic lift generated by
   its delta wing, the small rocket achieves orbit hundreds of miles above
   the Earth in approximately ten minutes. Pegasus is capable of carrying
   payloads up to 1,100 pounds.
   [Dryden Home Page] [Kennedy Space Center Launch Schedule] [Pegasus
   Photo Collection Images]
   L-1011 photo in PHYSX collage courtesy of Orbital Sciences Corporation
   white space blank space image of gray corner
   white space
   Skip bottom nav bar link group Business | Education | Employment | FOIA
   | Gallery | Newsroom | Organizations | Research | Search | Site Index
   white space

   Last Modified: May 22, 2001
   Responsible NASA Official: Jenny Baer-Riedhart
   PAO Webmasters
   NASA Web Privacy Statement
