http://askpwba.dol.gov/091101faq.html

                                To USDOL Home

                          USDOL Communications Mark

   PWBA
      Frequently Asked
      Questions and Answers

                            Skip to Main Content





     Quick Guide



     About PWBA



     Library



     Laws and Regulations



     News Room



     Programs/Services



     Related Sites



     Publications/Reports



     Forms Requests



     Document/Freedom of Information Act Requests



     Consumer Information on Health Plans




     Consumer Information on Pension Plans



     Compliance Assistance



     Frequently Asked Questions



     Contact PWBA







                      Retirement Savings Education Campaign




                       Health Benefits Education Campaign




                      EFAST Automated 5500 Forms Processing




                      National Summit on Retirement Savings
















                               Updated: 10/24/2001



    1. FAQs for Participants and Beneficiaries Related to the Events of
       September 11^th
    2. FAQs for Reservists Being Called to Active Duty Related to their
       Pension & Health Benefits
    3. FAQs for Plan Sponsors, Fiduciaries and Service Providers Related
       to the Events of September 11^th
    4. FAQs for Plan Sponsors Related to Filing Relief

   FAQs for Participants & Beneficiaries Related to the Events of
   September 11^th

   Many workers who were impacted by the terrorist attacks on September
   11^th have questions about the status and security of their employer
   provided health and pension benefits and retirement savings.

   The following Questions and Answers are intended to provide answers to
   the most frequently asked questions by participants and beneficiaries
   who have been impacted by these tragic events.  Information is provided
   on both health benefits issues and pension/retirement savings issues
   related to employee benefit plans covered by the Employee Retirement
   Income Security Act (ERISA).  In addition, Questions and Answers have
   been developed to provide answers to the most frequently asked benefits
   questions by reservists being called to active duty.

   The following responses are general descriptions only and do not carry
   the force of a legal opinion.

   Legislation is being considered that may change certain rules governing
   employee benefit plans to provide assistance to persons affected by the
   events of September 11^th.  The legislation may change the answers to
   some of the following questions.  Please check our website for updates
   on any legislative changes.
   Health Benefits

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] If my place of employment has closed as a result of the
   events of September 11^th, would I still be covered by my employer’s
   health insurance plan?

   A:

   Even if the employer's physical location has closed, as long as the
   employer exists, continues to sponsor a plan and employs you, you would
   generally remain covered under your existing health plan.   Many plans
   require a contribution from the employee to help pay for health
   coverage.  You may need to make arrangements to make this payment if
   you are not in pay status for some reason.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] My employer’s place of business is closed.  I cannot
   locate my plan administrator.  Whom do I contact to file a claim for
   benefits or to obtain other documents such as certificates of prior
   coverage, or replacement identification documents?

   A:

   Many employers affected by the events of September 11^th have set up
   temporary work quarters, or have made other provisions for their
   employees to contact them.  The employer's representative should be
   able to give you the name of the person to contact to obtain claim
   forms or other documents.

   If it is impossible to locate a contact person for your employer, you
   may contact one of  our Benefits Advisors at the PWBA Regional Office
   nearest you, or you may contact us electronically.

   If you do not receive a certificate of creditable coverage from your
   plan by the time you need one, you may demonstrate to a new plan or
   insurer that you have creditable coverage by attesting to the period of
   creditable coverage, producing some supporting evidence (such as a pay
   stub that reflects a deduction for health insurance, an explanation of
   benefits form, or verification by a doctor that you had prior health
   insurance coverage), and cooperating with an attempt to verify your
   prior health coverage.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] I think I may be losing my health coverage as a result of
   the events of September 11^th.  What can I do to obtain other health
   coverage?

   A:

   There may be several health coverage options available to you:
    1. Special enrollment in another group health plan.   If you think you
       or your dependents may be losing health coverage and other group
       health coverage is available to you (for example, if your family is
       losing eligibility for coverage under your employer’s group health
       plan and your spouse’s employer offers a group health plan), you
       should consider requesting special enrollment in your spouse’s
       plan.  Special enrollment gives you and your family an opportunity
       to enroll in a plan for which you are otherwise eligible regardless
       of the plan’s applicable enrollment periods.  However, to qualify,
       you must request enrollment within 30 days of losing eligibility
       for other coverage.  After special enrollment is requested,
       coverage is required to be made effective no later than the first
       day of the first month following your request for enrollment.  This
       type of coverage is usually less expensive because the employer
       often pays a part of the premium.
    2. COBRA continuation coverage.  If you are losing coverage through an
       employer that continues to offer a group health plan, you may want
       to consider electing COBRA continuation coverage. COBRA, which
       generally applies to employers with 20 or more employees, allows
       you and your family to continue the same group health coverage at
       group rates.  Your cost may be higher than what you were paying
       before (and is usually higher than what you would pay for coverage
       if you special enroll in your spouse’s plan), but generally it’s
       lower than what you would pay for private individual health
       insurance coverage.  You should get a notice from your plan
       regarding the availability of COBRA coverage.  After this notice is
       provided, you generally have 60 days to elect coverage and it is
       then retroactive to the date of loss of coverage.  However, you are
       not required to wait until you receive the election notice to elect
       COBRA; you may elect earlier.  (Note: Once you have elected COBRA,
       you won’t be eligible for special enrollment in another group
       health plan, such as a spouse’s plan, until you have exhausted all
       COBRA coverage available to you.)  COBRA coverage typically lasts
       18 months, but may last longer in certain circumstances.
    3. Health coverage through a government program.  You and your family
       may be eligible for health coverage through your state government
       or the U.S. government.  For information on Medicaid or other
       government programs for low-income individuals and individuals with
       special needs, contact your state government.  For information on
       your State Children’s Health Insurance Program for children of
       qualified families, contact your state government.  For information
       on Medicare for people aged 65 and over, and for certain people who
       are disabled or have end stage renal disease, contact the U.S.
       Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare &
       Medicaid Services at 1.800.MEDICARE.
    4. Private individual health insurance coverage.  You may qualify for
       guaranteed access to such coverage if:
          + You had health coverage for at least 18 months without a
            significant break in coverage (generally a break in coverage
            of 63 days or more) and your most recent period of coverage
            was under a group health plan;
          + Your group coverage was not terminated because you committed
            fraud or did not pay premiums;
          + You either were not offered COBRA continuation coverage (or
            coverage through a similar state program), or if you were
            offered COBRA coverage (or coverage through a similar state
            program), you both elected and exhausted COBRA coverage; and
          + You are not eligible for other health coverage.

   If you meet these criteria, you may qualify for guaranteed access to
   individual health insurance coverage for yourself and your family,
   without any preexisting condition exclusion.  (If you don’t meet these
   criteria, you still may be able to obtain individual health coverage.)
   However, the cost of individual health insurance coverage is often
   higher than similar coverage under a group health plan obtained through
   special enrollment or COBRA. For more information on individual health
   coverage, contact your state insurance commissioner, or the Department
   of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
   at 410.786.1565.

   Note:  When considering your health coverage options, you should
   examine the scope of the coverage (including benefit coverage and
   limitations, visit limits, and dollar limits), premiums, cost-sharing
   (including co-payments and deductibles), and waiting periods for
   coverage.

   For information on the coverage through a particular group health plan,
   you should review the plan’s Summary Plan Description (SPD – a document
   often referred to as an insurance booklet that describes your health
   coverage).  Call the plan administrator and request a copy if you don’t
   have one.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] I lost my spouse in the attack.  My spouse’s employer has
   agreed to pay the premiums for my health coverage for 12 months.  What
   effect will that have on any future eligibility for continuation health
   coverage under COBRA?

   A:

   You should ask the employer for more information.  The employer could
   be:
     * Making this offer of paid coverage only if COBRA coverage is
       declined.  In this case, if you elect paid coverage for 12 months,
       you will be ineligible for COBRA coverage, which is more expensive,
       but lasts longer.
     * Paying the first 12 months of COBRA coverage.  In this case, you
       will be able to continue coverage at your own expense for up to 24
       additional months.
     * Delaying your loss of coverage so that you will be able to have
       COBRA coverage at your own expense for up to 36 additional months.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] I had health coverage through my group health plan before
   I was laid off.  Although my plan offered domestic partner coverage, I
   did not elect it for my domestic partner.  Can I elect COBRA
   continuation coverage for myself and my partner?
   A:

   If your plan is subject to COBRA, you should be eligible for COBRA
   continuation coverage.  However, whether you can obtain coverage for
   your partner depends on how often your plan allows active employees to
   add domestic partners.  You should contact your plan administrator for
   more information on your partner’s eligibility for coverage.  You and
   your partner may also be eligible for special enrollment in a plan
   sponsored by your partner’s employer, if available.  Contact your
   partner’s plan administrator to find out whether you and your partner
   are eligible.
   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] My domestic partner and I had health coverage through my
   group health plan.  I’m now being laid off and we are losing
   eligibility for coverage under the plan.  Are we able to elect COBRA
   continuation coverage, or can we enroll in the group health plan
   sponsored by my partner’s employer?
   A:

   If your plan is subject to COBRA, you should be able to elect COBRA for
   yourself and your partner.  In addition, if your partner is otherwise
   eligible for coverage in his or her employer’s group health plan, he or
   she could be eligible for special enrollment if a request for
   enrollment is made within 30 days of losing eligibility for coverage
   under your plan.  Whether or not you are an eligible dependent in your
   partner’s group health plan depends on the terms of that plan and your
   partner should contact the plan administrator for more information on
   your eligibility.
   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] My domestic partner and I had health coverage through my
   partner’s group health plan.  My partner died as a result of the
   September 11 attacks.  Can I elect COBRA continuation coverage?
   A:

   COBRA does not require that the plan provide you continuation
   coverage.  Rather, whether you are eligible for any coverage depends on
   the terms of the plan.  You should contact the plan administrator for
   more information.  In addition, if you are eligible for coverage under
   another group health plan (for example, if your employer sponsors a
   plan), you could be eligible for special enrollment in your employer’s
   plan if you request enrollment within 30 days of losing eligibility for
   your other coverage.  You should contact your employer’s plan
   administrator for more information on special enrollment.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] Can my employer terminate or reduce my health benefits?

   A:

   Employers offer health benefits on a voluntary basis.  Federal law does
   not require employers to offer health coverage to their employees nor
   does it prevent employers from cutting or reducing benefits in many
   instances.  Employees and their families may have a right to
   continuation coverage under COBRA if the plan still exists and may have
   a contractual right to coverage if, for example, benefits are required
   under a collective bargaining agreement.  In addition, a plan cannot
   deny eligibility or continued eligibility based on health status.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] I am a retiree and I receive retiree health benefits from
   my former employer.  The company was affected by the events of
   September 11^th.  Can my retiree health benefits be terminated or
   changed?

   A:

   Providing for health care is an important part of retirement. Some
   employees are fortunate: they belong to employer-provided health care
   plans that carry over into retirement. Employees and retirees should
   know that private sector employers are not required to promise retiree
   health benefits. Furthermore, when employers do offer retiree health
   benefits, nothing in federal law prevents them from cutting or
   eliminating those benefits - unless they have made a specific legally
   binding promise to maintain the benefits.  The key to understanding
   your retiree health benefits lies in the documents governing your
   plan.  If you have not already done so, you should obtain a copy of the
   Summary Plan Description to determine the nature of the employer’s
   promise to you.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] My employer did not pay my insurance premium.  May I pay
   the premium to continue my coverage?

   A:

   You should contact your employer to determine the employer’s intent to
   pay the premium.  You may wish to contact the insurance company to
   determine how long the payment has been in arrears, if the insurance
   company has provided a grace period for late payment, and how long the
   employer has been given to make the payment.  You may also wish to
   contact your state insurance commissioner regarding any rights you may
   have under state law to pay premiums directly to the insurance company
   or convert your health coverage to an individual policy.

   If your premiums are in arrears or your coverage has been cancelled as
   a result of the employer’s failure to make the premium payment, you may
   contact one of  our Benefits Advisors at the PWBA Regional Office
   nearest you, or you may contact us electronically.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] I had COBRA coverage prior to September 11^th.  The
   location I was sending my COBRA premium to is closed.  Where do I send
   my premium?

   A:

   Many employers affected by the events of September 11^th have set up
   temporary work quarters, or have made other provisions for their
   employees to contact them.  The employer should be able to give you the
   information needed to continue making your COBRA premium payments.

   If it is impossible to locate a contact person for your employer, you
   may contact one of  our Benefits Advisors at the PWBA Regional Office
   nearest you, or you may contact us electronically.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] There is so much going on in our lives right now.  Why is
   focusing on health coverage important?

   A:

   Although it may be hard to think about health coverage right now, it is
   important that you don’t wait too long before considering your options
   and making a health coverage decision.
     * First, because several of your best choices are only available for
       a limited time, waiting may eliminate some of your best options.
       Special enrollment in your spouse’s plan must be requested within
       30 days of loss of eligibility for other health coverage.  COBRA
       continuation coverage must be elected within 60 days of when the
       COBRA election notice is provided to you.
     * Second, if you experience a significant break in your health
       coverage, you may experience long-term adverse effects on future
       health coverage.  For example, a 1996 federal law known as the
       Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) placed
       strict limitations on a group health plan’s ability to deny
       benefits for medical conditions based on a preexisting condition
       exclusion.  Under HIPAA, plans generally must give you credit for
       prior health coverage, reducing or eliminating any preexisting
       condition exclusion under the plan.  However, if you experience a
       significant break in coverage (generally a break of 63 days or
       more), you may lose your credit for prior health coverage and you
       will lose guaranteed access to individual health insurance
       coverage.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] Where can I get more information on my health coverage
   options?

   A:

   For more information on your health benefits rights and options, link
   to the following publications on our website:
     * Pension and Health Coverage...Questions and Answers for Dislocated
       Workers
     * Questions and Answers: Recent Changes in Health Care Law
     * Health Benefits Under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget
       Reconciliation Act (COBRA)
     * IRS Notice 98-12: Deciding Whether to Elect COBRA Health Care
       Continuation Coverage After the Enactment of HIPAA

   You may also call the toll-free Publication Hotline at 1.800.998.7542
   to request one or more copies of the publications.

   If you still have questions about your rights, or need assistance in
   obtaining your benefits, you may contact one of  our Benefits Advisors
   at the PWBA Regional Office nearest you, or you may contact us
   electronically.

   Note: The Department has also issued separate sets of Questions and
   Answers for participants and beneficiaries related to
   Pension/Retirement Savings (see below) and for reservists who have been
   called to active duty.

   A separate set of Questions and Answers related to the events of
   September 11^th and its impact on employee benefits has also been
   developed for Plan Sponsors, Fiduciaries and Service Providers.
   Pension / Retirement Savings

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] My employer’s place of business is closed due to the
   events of September 11^th.  Whom should I contact to file a claim for
   pension benefits or make sure that I will continue to receive my
   pension payments on time?

   A:

   Every pension plan is required to have a plan administrator.  The plan
   administrator may be the employer (or labor organization) sponsoring
   the benefit plan or it may be some individual or entity appointed to
   serve as the plan administrator.  Pension plans must provide
   participants with a Summary Plan Description (SPD) describing the plan
   rules in plain English.  The SPD should also contain information on how
   to identify and locate the plan administrator, as well as steps to
   follow in applying for a benefit.  Whenever possible, a participant
   should first try to contact the plan administrator for information on
   benefits.

   A second point of contact may be the employer’s human resource or
   personnel department.  If the plan employer’s place of business is
   closed and no temporary work quarters have been established, it may not
   be possible to contact the plan administrator or the employer.

   However, there may be others who may be of help.  These include the
   plan trustee who holds the plan assets, a mutual fund, insurance
   company, bank or other financial institution providing services to the
   plan, a third party who handles the administrative functions of the
   plan, or the plan accountant.  These persons may be identified in plan
   correspondence or benefit statements that you may have received
   previously.

   When it is impossible to contact the plan administrator, the employer
   or other officials mentioned above, you may contact one of  our
   Benefits Advisors at the PWBA Regional Office nearest you, or you may
   contact us electronically.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] My pension payment normally arrives on the 15^th of each
   month.  It did not come this month.  What should I do?

   A:

   Call your plan administrator to determine the reason for the delay in
   the receipt of your payment.  Ask whether the plan is having
   operational problems or whether this problem is limited to your
   payment.  If the problem is limited to your payment, discuss how to
   resolve your problem with the administrator.  If the delay involves a
   plan operation issue, ask what efforts are being made to make timely
   payments.

   Your employer or former employer may be able to get answers to your
   questions. Parent or subsidiary companies of your employer also may be
   able to help you get information on the status of payments.  Firms
   providing services to your plan such as third party administrators,
   investment advisors and trustees may also be able to provide you with
   information about benefit payments.

   If you are still unable to get information about the status of your
   benefits, you may contact one of  our Benefits Advisors at the PWBA
   Regional Office nearest you, or you may contact us electronically.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] How can I make changes in the way my 401(k) plan account
   is invested if it was affected by the events of September 11^th?

   A:

   Begin by attempting to make changes through normal procedures contained
   in your Summary Plan Description or other plan documents.  If your
   employer or the financial services firm holding your account was
   affected by the events of September 11^th, there may be a delay in
   making changes to your investments.  In this event, you should contact
   the plan administrator or other plan officials such as the employer
   sponsoring the plan, trustee, or the party providing administrative
   services to the plan to determine what steps are being made to restore
   the plan’s normal operations.  If you are unable to obtain this
   information, you may contact one of  our Benefits Advisors at the PWBA
   Regional Office nearest you, or you may contact us electronically.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] Can I get money out of my pension plan if I need financial
   assistance to help me at this time?

   A:

   Many plans provide for loans to plan participants.  However, federal
   law does not require plans to make loans.  Your Summary Plan
   Description (SPD) or other plan documents should explain the terms of
   any plan loan program.  You will only be able to obtain a loan if the
   plan has a loan program.

   Your plan may also permit withdrawals in the event of hardship,
   disability or termination of employment.  Federal law, however, does
   not require that plans provide for such withdrawals.  Your SPD or other
   plan documents should provide information concerning any right you may
   have with respect to such withdrawals.  Withdrawing money from your
   plan may have tax or other adverse consequences.  (See the following
   question.)

   If you wish to get money out of your pension plan in the form of a loan
   or a hardship withdrawal, you should contact your plan administrator,
   plan sponsor, or other plan official.  If you are unable to contact any
   of these officials, you may contact one of  our Benefits Advisors at
   the PWBA Regional Office nearest you, or you may contact us
   electronically.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] Are there any potential adverse effects if I receive my
   pension benefits prior to normal retirement age?

   A:

   Yes. Receiving a lump sum or other distribution from your pension plan
   may affect your ability to receive unemployment compensation. You
   should check with your state unemployment office.

   Receiving money from your pension plan may result in additional income
   tax. You can defer these taxes, however, if you keep the money in your
   plan or if you "roll over" the money into a qualified pension plan or
   Individual Retirement Account (IRA). There are provisions in the
   Internal Revenue Code that govern these rollovers. (Refer to IRS FAQs
   on distributions.)

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] When must my pension plan pay my benefits?

   A:

   Federal pension law does not set a specific time within which plans
   must start paying benefits after you retire or otherwise become
   eligible to receive benefits.  Plan administrators must act prudently
   and follow the procedures in the plan documents.  Your Summary Plan
   Description (SPD) or other plan documents should provide information on
   those procedures.  If you have specific questions, you should contact
   the plan administrator.

   Some pension plans pay benefits only after a participant reaches normal
   retirement age.  Many plans, however, allow for earlier distribution of
   benefits under certain circumstances.  The rules permitting earlier
   distribution of benefits will be contained in the plan document or
   SPD.  For example, some plans may require a participant to be separated
   from employment for a specified period of time before being eligible to
   receive a benefit.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] Is my pension plan required to give me a lump-sum
   distribution?

   A:

   Federal law does not require that plans provide for lump sum
   distributions.  Many plans, however, do contain provisions allowing for
   lump sum distributions.  Consult the plan documents or Summary Plan
   Description to determine your eligibility for a lump sum distribution.

   If you are in a defined benefit plan (a plan in which you receive a
   benefit based on a formula established in the plan) your benefits
   usually begin at retirement age. These types of plans are less likely
   than defined contribution plans to contain a provision that enables you
   to receive your benefits in a lump sum.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] I am the spouse of a deceased plan participant.  How do I
   know what benefits I am entitled to; how do I file a claim; and what
   proof will I need to give the plan?

   A:

   One of the most important documents you should have is the Summary Plan
   Description (SPD). It outlines the plan rules including benefit rights,
   the way benefits are calculated, how to apply for benefits and how to
   appeal a denial of a claim for benefits.  A copy of the SPD must be
   provided when a plan participant or beneficiary requests it in
   writing.  If you do not have a copy of the SPD, you should contact the
   plan administrator.

   In addition to the SPD, you can ask the plan administrator to provide
   you information about the amount of benefits your spouse had earned to
   date and  vesting status (the amount of benefits earned that cannot be
   forfeited).  This is important information for you, whether you
   withdraw your money now or later.  You should also ask the plan
   administrator what information the plan requires to decide your claim
   and how to file the claim.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] If I am entitled to receive benefits from my spouse's
   pension plan based on the terms of a divorce or separation, what should
   I do to make sure my rights are protected?

   A:

   If you have been awarded a portion of your former spouse's pension in a
   domestic relations proceeding, you may wish to verify that the plan
   administrator still has records of the determination that you are
   entitled to benefits under the plan.

   If the plan's records have been destroyed, you may need to provide the
   plan with a copy of the domestic relations order that established your
   entitlement to benefits under the plan.  You should also provide the
   plan with any other evidence you may have that the order was sufficient
   and that you were entitled to benefits.  Other evidence might include a
   benefit statement from the plan showing your benefit.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] If my employer faces economic difficulties as a result of
   the events of September 11^th, can my employer terminate my pension
   plan, and if so, what happens to my benefits?

   A:

   Federal law generally does not prohibit employers from terminating
   their pension plans.  The law does protect your rights to benefits
   earned before the plan is terminated and requires that employers follow
   certain rules when terminating plans.  There is, however, no right to
   earn additional benefits under the plan.  The benefits you are entitled
   to will depend on the type of plan you participate in and how long you
   have worked for the employer.

   If you were covered by a defined benefit plan, the benefits you may be
   entitled to generally will depend on a formula that is contained in
   your plan documents and Summary Plan Description (SPD).  The plan’s
   formula may include factors such as age, length of service and pay.
   Benefits may not be payable under the plan until you reach normal
   retirement age, generally age 65 or some other age specified in the
   plan documents and SPD.

   The termination of defined benefit plans is also regulated by the
   Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC), which guarantees certain
   benefits in the event that the plan’s assets are not sufficient to pay
   benefits.  For information on the PBGC’s plan termination insurance
   program, contact the PBGC’s Customer Service Center at 1.800.400.7242.

   If you were covered by a defined contribution plan, such as a 401(k)
   plan, profit sharing, or employee stock ownership plan, each
   participant has an individual account in the plan.  Contributions,
   earnings, and investment gains or losses are credited to this
   individual account.  You are always 100% vested in any contributions
   you made to the plan, including investment gains and earnings on your
   contributions, less any investment losses.  In addition, depending on
   the terms of the plan, you may be vested in part or all of your
   employer’s contributions.  You will be automatically 100% vested in the
   employer contributions to the plan when the plan is terminated.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] All of the records concerning my employment with the plan
   sponsor and my participation in the pension plan were destroyed as a
   result of the events of September 11^th.  What do I do?

   A:

   You should search your personal records for any material or documents
   that would help to establish your employment and participation in the
   plan.  Look for pay statements and W-2 forms showing that you were
   covered under a plan and the amount you may have contributed to the
   plan.  You may also have benefit or account statements issued by the
   plan that you may be keeping with your important papers.  For example,
   many 401(k) plans distribute regular account statements.  These records
   may show the names of the investment vehicles in which your 401(k)
   account was invested.

   When you began employment with the employer sponsoring the plan, you
   may have been given an employee handbook and beneficiary designation
   forms to complete.  You may have copies of these that may also help to
   establish your rights under the plan.

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] Where can I get more information on my pension rights?

   A:

   More information on your pension benefits rights is available in the
   following publications:
     * Pension and Health Coverage...Questions and Answers for Dislocated
       Workers
     * What You Should Know About Your Pension Rights

   You may also call the toll-free Publication Hotline at 1.800.998.7542
   to request one or more copies of the publications.

   For information on a particular pension plan, you should review the
   plan’s Summary Plan Description.  Call the plan administrator and
   request a copy if you don’t have one.

   If you still have questions about your rights, or need assistance in
   obtaining your benefits, you may contact one of  our Benefits Advisors
   at the PWBA Regional Office nearest you, or you may contact us
   electronically.

   Note: The Department has also issued separate sets of Questions and
   Answers for participants and beneficiaries related to health benefits
   and for reservists who have been called to active duty.  (see below)

   A separate set of Questions and Answers related to the events of
   September 11^th and its impact on employee benefits has also been
   developed for Plan Sponsors, Fiduciaries and Service Providers.

   FAQs for Reservists Being Called to Active Duty Related to their
   Pension and Health Benefits

   Many veterans and reserve component members being called to active duty
   as a result of the terrorist attacks on September 11, ^ 2001, may have
   questions about their employer provided pension and health benefits.
   The Department of Labor's Veterans' Employment and Training Service
   (VETS) has information for veterans, National Guard or reservists who
   may be activated for military service.  National Guard and reserve
   members called to active duty, and their civilian employers, have
   certain rights and responsibilities under the Uniformed Services
   Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA).  VETS has developed a
   fact sheet and an interactive computer program, the USERRA Advisor,
   which address the rights and responsibilities of individuals and their
   employers under the law.  These tools, and other USERRA information,
   can be found on the VETS web site.

   The following Questions and Answers are intended to provide answers to
   the most frequently asked questions by National Guard and reserve
   members related to both health benefits issues and pension/retirement
   savings issues.  The responses are general descriptions only and do not
   carry the force of a legal opinion.

   Legislation is being considered that may change certain rules governing
   employee benefit plans to provide assistance to persons affected by the
   events of September 11^th.  The legislation may change the answers to
   some of the following questions.  Please check our website for updates
   on any legislative changes.
   Health Benefits

   Q:

   [topdoc.gif] My family had health coverage through my employer when I
   was called for active duty in the military.  What are my rights to
   health coverage now?

   A:

   If you are on active duty for more than 30 days, you and your
   dependents should be covered by military health care. For more
   information on these programs contact your military unit.

   In addition, two laws protect your right to continue health coverage
   under an employment-based group health plan.  The Consolidated Omnibus
   Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) provides health coverage continuation
   rights to employees and their families after an event such as reduction
   in employment hours.  The Uniformed Services Employment and
   Reemployment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA) is intended to minimize the
   disadvantages that occur when a person needs to be absent from civilian
   employment to serve in the uniformed services.  Both COBRA and USERRA
   generally allow individuals called for active duty to continue coverage
   for themselves and their dependents under an employment-based group
   health plan for up to 18 months.  If military service is for 30 or
   fewer days, you and your family can continue coverage at the same cost
   as before your short service.  If military service is longer, you and
   your family may be required to pay as much as 102% of the full premium
   for coverage.

   Finally, another law known as the Health Insurance Portability and
   Accountability Act (HIPAA) may give you and your family rights to
   enroll in other group health plan coverage if it is
