http://www.loc.gov/today/

   Welcome to The Library Today

                                                           Today in History
                                                              Wednesday,
                                                           January 30, 2002

      The latest news, events and features from your nation's library.

   What's New at the Library of Congress
   Featured Attractions at the Library of Congress
   Welcome to the Library of Congress

   New Guide to Women's History Resources ... Book to Be Discussed Feb. 21

   Librarian of Congress Names 25 More Films to National Film Registry

   Symposium on Islam in America Jan. 29

   Frederick Law Olmsted's Residential Designs to Be Discussed on Jan. 29

   Barnum's Bird Opera Premieres at Library Feb. 1-2

   Poets Lehman and Weiner to Read Feb. 7

   Newly Restored Classic "Cinderella" to Be Shown Feb. 12

   Children of the Depression Feb. 13

   Bluegrass Odyssey Lecture Feb. 27

   Fellowship in Caricature and Cartoon Offered

   Online Version of World Treasures Exhibition Updated

   Veterans History Project

   September 11 Internet Archive

   Prints from the Library's Collections

   Security at the Library of Congress

   "Portals to the World" Web Site Launched

   All Buildings Open, Free of Anthrax

   World Treasures Exhibition

   Copyright Office Debuts Web-based Search System

   First Lady Chairs "Telling America's Stories" Reading Campaign

   Concerts from the Library of Congress

   Free Film Series

   Madison Building Closings
   Due to scheduled electrical work, the Library's James Madison Memorial
   Building and all its reading rooms will be closed on Saturday, February
   2 and Saturday, February 16. The Jefferson and Adams buildings will be
   open as usual, with temporary reader registration in the Jefferson
   Building. We regret any inconvenience.

   Poetry 180 logo A Poem a Day for American High Schools
   The new Poetry 180 program from the Library and Poet Laureate Billy
   Collins is designed to make it easy for students to hear or read a poem
   each day of the 180 days of the school year. Also: see and hear Billy
   Colllins read from his work.

   image from exhibition Japanese Art Exhibition Extended
   "The Floating World of Ukiyo-e: Shadows, Dreams and Substance," an
   exhibition at the Library of its masterpieces of Japanese art and
   literature, has been extended through February 9.

   Question mark illustration Question mark illustration Ask a Librarian
   Do you have a reference question? Looking for information about the
   Library? Looking for information on books, maps, recordings or other
   items from the Library's collections? Try our new online reference
   service.

   Logo for National Book Festival Cybercasts from the National Book
   Festival
   View selected author presentations and discussions from the first
   National Book Festival in September. The event, hosted by First Lady
   Laura Bush on the grounds of the Library of Congress and the U.S.
   Capitol, celebrated the joys of reading.

   Margaret Mead Margaret Mead Exhibition
   "Margaret Mead: Human Nature and the Power of Culture," a new
   exhibition of materials from the Library's extensive Margaret Mead
   collection, has opened. See an online preview of the exhibition.

   Photo of Jackie Robinson Library Acquires Jackie Robinson Papers
   Rachel Robinson, Jackie Robinson's widow, has given his papers to the
   Library of Congress. Read about the donation, or view two Library sites
   on the baseball pioneer in American Memory or the America's Library
   site for kids and families. Or listen to Sharon Robinson, Jackie's
   daughter, discuss Jackie Robinson's values.

   Chicago Anarchists on Trial
   New in American Memory: more than 3,800 images of original manuscripts,
   broadsides, photographs, prints and artifacts relating to the Haymarket
   Affair, the violent confrontation between Chicago police and labor
   protesters in 1886.

   Frederick Douglass Frederick Douglass Papers
   The papers of the 19th century African American abolitionist who
   escaped from slavery and became an outspoken antislavery lecturer,
   writer, and publisher, are now online.

                   Welcome from the Librarian of Congress

                                News Releases

                             Calendar of Events

                  Library of Congress Information Bulletin

                     Fascinating Facts About the Library

                         Cybercasts from the Library

                           National Book Festival

                           Public Hours and Tours

                     Current Exhibitions at the Library

                                 Sales Shop

                            Giving Opportunities

                             Center for the Book

                           International Horizons

                           Law Library of Congress

                            John W. Kluge Center

                        Center for Russian Leadership

                           Local Legacies Program

                            Bicentennial Programs

                             Places in the News

                              The Learning Page

                        What's New at American Memory

                    Searching for Legislative Information

   LIBRARY of CONGRESS HOME | AMERICA'S LIBRARY (for kids and families) |
   COLLECTIONS & SERVICES
   THOMAS (Legislative Info) | COPYRIGHT OFFICE | EXHIBITIONS | HELP &
   FAQs | AMERICAN MEMORY
   SEARCH the CATALOG | SEARCH our SITE | ABOUT the SITE | COMMENTS | TOP
   of PAGE

                           The Library of Congress
                              Washington, D.C.
