http://ie.lbl.gov/hspin.html

[Gammasphere Picture] Welcome to the High-Spin and Nuclear Structure home page

   Isotopes Project, Nuclear Science Division, Ernest Orlando Lawrence
   Berkeley National Laboratory Berkeley, CA 94720

   [rainbow.gif]

   This page is dedicated to serving the nuclear data needs of researchers
   in nuclear structure and high-spin physics. Interactive access to the
   Evaluated Nuclear Structure Data File (ENSDF) and Table of Isotopes
   databases can be obtained with Isotope Explorer 3.0 (Java and HTML),
   Isotope Explorer 2.2 (Windows 95/98/NT), and VuENSDF 1.0 (Windows 3.1)

   The 8th edition of the Table of Isotopes contains nuclear structure and
   decay information for over 2600 isotopes. Nuclear band drawings are
   included in this edition. The book has been published and is also
   available on CD-ROM in Adobe Acrobat PDF (Portable Document Format)
   format.

   Some of the data available on this page are provided in PDF format. A
   free copy of the Acrobat Reader (for PC, Macintosh, and some Unix
   machines) and instructions for configuring your Web browser to
   recognize PDF files can be obtained from Adobe.

   [rainbow.gif]

   Large Detector Arrays

          Gammasphere
          Eurogam

   NEW Table of Superdeformed Nuclear Bands and Fission Isomers, Internet
   Edition (HTML) or Acrobat Edition (PDF) , updated through June, 1997.
   This edition will be updated on a continuing basis. Complete level data
   are provided for all nuclei with SD bands. SD band drawings, summary
   tables, moment plots, and reference lists are available.

   NEW Nuclear Science References Search over 140,000 references from the
   NSR reference file by author, nuclide, reaction, keyword, and other
   data types.

   XUNDL Experimental Data File. High-spin and nuclear structure data are
   compiled directly from experimental papers under the direction of B.
   Singh, the High-Spin Nuclear Data Coordinator, at McMaster University,
   Canada. Tables and level-scheme drawings can be viewed with Isotope
   Explorer 3.0 (Java and HTML).

   Nilsson Diagrams (PS) 1290kb (PDF) 370kb

   Experimental and Theoretical Nuclear Masses

   Table of Isotopes ordering information.

   RadWare, a software package for interactive graphical analysis of
   gamma-ray coincidence data. Level scheme data from the ENSDF and
   experimental data sources are available in Radware format.

   Argonne National Laboratory Superdeformed Periodic Chart for A=190

   88" Cyclotron Beam Time Request Form

   Return to Table of Isotopes home page

   [rainbow.gif]

   If you want to obtain a copy of the 8th edition of the Table of
   Isotopes please contact John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York.. For
   technical questions and comments about the book contact, preferably by
   e-mail,


    Richard B. Firestone, e-mail: rbf@lbl.gov
    Ernest O. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
    MailStop 50A-6102
    1 Cyclotron Road
    Berkeley, CA 94720
    Phone: 510-486-7646
    Fax: 510-486-5757
    [recip.gif]
