http://www.pesb.wa.gov/BasicSkills/BasicSkillsAssessment.htm

                [Golden%20apple%202.gif] [PESB%20Banner.jpg]

                                Back Up Next

                              BASIC SKILLS TEST

                         PESB Selects Contractor for
                    Prospective Teacher Basic Skills Test

   September 25, 2001—Beginning in September 2002 prospective teachers
   will be required to demonstrate mastery of basic academic skills for
   admission to teacher preparation programs through successful completion
   of a basic skills test.  Today in Olympia, the Washington State
   Professional Educator Standards Board (PESB) selected National
   Evaluation Systems, Inc. of Amherst, Massachusetts as the contractor to
   develop and implement a basic skills test that all candidates will
   take, whether they attend, for example, the University of Washington,
   Central Washington, or Gonzaga University.

   National Evaluation Systems (NES) has provided states with customized
   teacher certification testing programs for 25 years.  Currently
   prospective teachers in eight states take basic skills tests that have
   been developed and administered by NES.

   “We are very pleased to have National Evaluation Systems assisting the
   Board in implementing the basic skills test,” said Tom Charouhas, PESB
   Chair and science/technology teacher in Lake Washington School
   District.  “We were fortunate to have a strong response to our request
   for proposals.  After thorough review and deliberation by the board and
   a panel of experts, the board members decided that the proposal of NES
   best fits the needs of Washington State.”

   “All 22 of our state’s teacher preparation programs currently have
   basic skills requirements for admission,” said Charouhas, “ but these
   requirements vary considerably.  Our mission as a board is to maintain
   educator quality in the state.  With the help of NES the board will
   fulfill its commitment to develop a uniform way to measure the basic
   skills competency of those teachers beginning their preparation for the
   classroom.”

   The PESB was created by the Legislature in 2000.  The PESB has 20
   members, 19 members appointed by Governor Gary Locke plus the
   Superintendent of Public Instruction.  The Board is charged with
   responsibility for recommending policies related to recruitment,
   training, retention, and evaluation of educators.  Legislation
   establishing the PESB requires the development and implementation of
   two tests for prospective teachers:  a common basic skills test that
   higher education institutions will use for admissions to teacher
   preparation programs, and a knowledge test in the subject area the
   candidate is seeking certification to teach, such as secondary math or
   English.  Teachers moving into Washington to accept positions within
   the state will also be required to pass the basic skills test.

   Washington joins 45 other states in requiring teachers to pass a basic
   skills test prior to certification.

   The law gives the PESB the authority to establish exceptions to this
   requirement, for example, individuals from other states who have
   demonstrated proficiency through a similar test.  The PESB may permit
   other exceptions on a case-by-case basis.

   The board will contract with National Evaluation Systems in November to
   begin developing and piloting the basic skills test.  In January, the
   Board will release a Request for Proposals (RFP) to begin work on the
   content area tests.  The content area tests are scheduled to be piloted
   beginning in September 2002 and will be required for certification
   beginning in September 2003.


   Information:  Contact David Anderson at 360-725-6277.

   The following documents can only be viewed if you have Acrobat Reader
   installed on your computer.  Download this FREE software: Acrobat
   Reader Free Software



   Home


   Last Updated 10/01/01

   Hit Counter since 10/01/01
