http://www.aesdirect.gov


   [USEMAP:top_100-2.jpg]
   Getting Started
   . Tour
   . How To Register
   . Registration Form
   . Terms & Conditions
   . Privacy Policy
   Log In
   . Tutorial & Quiz
   . AESDirect
   Using AESDirect
   . User Guide
   . Support Center
   . Browser Support
   . Developers Center
   . News
   AESPcLink
   . About AESPcLink
   . Getting Started
   . News
   . Download
   . Request CD
   . Terms & Conditions
   Related Sites
   . AES
   . Census Bureau
   . U.S. Customs
   . USATrade.gov
   . Partner Sites

    AESDirect Newsflash   New AESDirect Workshops in Florida, Feb 20 & 21

   --- Welcome to AESDirect ---
   AESDirect is the U.S. Census Bureau's free, internet based system for
   filing Shipper's Export Declaration (SED) information to the Automated
   Export System (AES). It is the electronic alternative to filing a paper
   SED, and can be used by U.S. Principal Parties in Interest (USPPIs),
   forwarders, or anyone else responsible for export reporting.

   --- Why AESDirect? ---
   AESDirect significantly streamlines the export reporting process by
   reducing the paperwork burden on the trade community, reducing costly
   document handling and storage, and ensuring that export information is
   filed in a timely manner. AESDirect improves the quality of the export
   trade statistics, helping the Census Bureau provide the Government and
   the public more accurate information.

   AESDirect System Requirements
   AESDirect does not require any software or hardware investment, however
   there are some minimum system requirements. Check the Browser Support
   page for details.

   AESWebLink and EDI Upload
   If you are a software or internet application vendor you can connect
   your application to AESDirect using AESWebLink or EDI Upload. More
   information on AESWebLink and EDI Upload is contained in the Developers
   Center.

   AESPcLink
   The Windows based desktop PC component of the AESDirect Service.
   AESPcLink allows any AESDirect filer to enter their SEDs off-line and
   connect to AESDirect using the Internet to submit their SEDs. It has
   been designed as an integral component of AESDirect and is available to
   any authorized user. Check the About AESPcLink page for more
   information.
   U.S. Census Bureau Foreign Trade Logo U.S. Department of Commerce
   [top of page]
