http://www.rehab.cahwnet.gov


   California - The Golden State    California Home Page Governor's Home
                                                         Page


   DEPARTMENT OF REHABILITATION Employment, Independence & Equality d

                            Flex Your Power Logo

                           Energy Tips For People
                              With Disabilities

   Gold Horizontal Bar
   Direct Services to People with Disabilities
       - Learn about DOR services and how to access them.
       Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
       - Read about your rights and responsibilities under the ADA and
       what DOR does in relation to the ADA.
       Employment Opportunities at DOR
       - Would you like to work for DOR? Recruitment and open position
       information is listed.
       Assistance for Current Consumers
       - Do you need help with your current case? Get information about
       the Client Assistance Program, Mediation, Appeals Board Fair
       Hearings and other ways to get help.
       Independent Living Information
       - Independent Living Centers (ILC's) have information and services
       to help Californians achieve the greatest level of independence in
       their lives.
       About DOR
       - Learn where the nearest office is and how to contact DOR. Get
       Public Notices and Department news, a description of our
       organizational structure, and copies of publications and forms.
       Grants
       - DOR offers several grants. Check out the latest Request for
       Proposals.
       Assistance for Service Providers
       - Do you want to become a service provider for DOR consumers? Learn
       about the certification process.
       Employment Resources
       - Links to job search sites, California One-stops and other
       resources.
       FYI
       - What's new on the site? Public Meeting Announcements, State
       Rehabilitation Council (SRC) information, the latest Department
       reports, including the State Plan, events and topical information
       from other State Agencies.

   CAST Bobby logo

                          WEB ACCESS SYMBOL (FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES)

                                Gold Horizontal Bar


    DOR Home / Services / ADA / DOR Employment / Consumer Assistance /
   Independent Living
   About DOR / Grants / Service Providers / Employment Resources / FYI

      Comment Form / Table of Contents / Conditions of Use / Privacy Policy /
                                 E-mail Webmaster
                         Website Last Updated January 2002
