http://www.demint.house.gov

   [jim2.jpg]

   BIOGRAPHY

   LEGISLATION


   [USEMAP:e-mail_copy.jpg]


   Sign Up to Receive
   Updates by E-mail!
   FREEDOM ALERT


   Local Legacies
   MORE


   (CRS) Issue Briefs
   INDEX





   [DeMint_Banner.gif]

   A Message to Small Business Owners
   Congressman DeMint is pleased to announce Opportunities 2002: Making
   Dollars and Sense Selling to the Government, a procurement conference
   he is sponsoring with Reps. Lindsey Graham (SC-03) and Charles Taylor
   (NC-11). This regional trade show, which will provide small businesses
   with the opportunity to meet with over 60 federal, state and local
   government agencies and prime contractors, is designed to help keep
   small businesses in the Carolinas poised to take advantage of the many
   opportunities available to deal with "the largest purchaser of goods
   and services in the world."  Find out MORE about Opportunities 2002.

   Congressman DeMint Wants to hear from you!
   Due to the delay of mail delivery to our D.C. office, Representative
   DeMint encourages constituents to correspond with him via EMAIL.  To
   find out the latest on what's happening on Capitol Hill, sign up to
   receive the Congressman's FREEDOM ALERT.

   Secretary Evans Pledges "a level playing field" for Textiles
   On Monday, December 17, Secretary of Commerce Donald Evans toured
   Springs Industries' Lyman textile plant with Representative DeMint.
   Secretary Evans praised the Congressman for his vote on Trade Promotion
   Authority (TPA) which would give President Bush "vital" power to
   promote open markets around the world for American goods.  The
   Secretary also pledged that textiles would be given top priority in
   future trade agreements.
   PICTURES AND MORE
   DeMint & Armey Announce Plan to Save Social Security
   Congressman DeMint and House Majority Leader Armey (R-TX) recently
   announced their Social Security Ownership and Guarantee Act.  Along
   with meeting and exceeding all of President Bush's criteria for
   long-term reform, the plan guarantees benefits currently promised to
   seniors while offering younger workers the opportunity to save more for
   their retirement. The plan would solve Social Security's future
   problems and make the program permanently secure for generations to
   come.  Read MORE about it!

   Where Are Your Surplus Tax Dollars Going?
   Tax relief and reform that returns surplus tax revenue to the people
   who earn it must be a key factor in any attempt to stimulate our
   economy.  To learn more about current federal spending and your tax
   money, view this easy-to-
   understand ANNUAL REPORT TO TAXPAYERS. (must have Adobe Acrobat Reader
   to view)

   A Salute to Upstate Veterans
   Congressman DeMint expressed his desire to honor the men and women
   serving in the armed services today, as well as remember the sacrifices
   that veterans made years ago as he commemorated Veterans Day in
   Greenville.  See pictures and MORE on this story.

                                  [bomber.jpg]
         Congressman DeMint recently thanked veterans who served at
                                Greenville's
            Donaldson Air Force Base for their years of service.


   504 Cannon HOB
   Washington, DC 20515
   (202) 225-6030 300 E. Washington St. Suite 101
   Greenville, SC 29601
   (864) 232-1141 201 Magnolia St. Suite 108
   Spartanburg, SC 29301
   (864) 582-6422 P.O. Box 1169
   Union, SC 29379
   (864) 427-2205
