http://www.cdva.ca.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home

   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
                skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree



                          CDVA Home
                          About us
                          Cal-Vet Home Loans
                          Veterans Homes
                          Veterans Services
                          Women Veterans
                          Veterans Memorial
                          Vets License Plates
                          California Veterans Board
                          Homes for Sale
                          News from CDVA
                          Employment Opportunities
                          Links to Other Sites
                          Site Map



                              Related Resources



         U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs-Home Page

         U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs-More Useful URLs

         California Association of County Veterans Service Officers

         Inspector General for Veterans Affairs

         Links to Other States' Veterans Sites

         CDVA Seal


      Title illustration with CDVA Seal and Veterans Memorial - Link to
      Memorial Page

                              Featured Programs

   Vietnam Veterans Memorial

   Welcome Veterans!
   An overview of our programs: Learn about the California Veterans
   Memorial, Cal-Vet Home Loan, Women Veterans and other benefits and
   programs from CDVA.

   Cal-Vet Homebuyers

   Cal-Vet Home Loans
   For over 75 years Cal-Vet has been offering veterans the best home loan
   value in California. Current Cal-Vet interest rates

   Properties for Sale
   Purchase a home from Cal-Vet - a good deal for you and California's
   Veterans.

   Veterans License Plate

   Veterans Licence Plates
   Proudly display special veterans license plates on all your family
   vehicles.

   Homeless Veteran

   Homeless Veterans Resources
   A Hand Up, Not a Hand Out: Check out this new section in CDVA's web
   site for the latest news on homelessness, current information on Stand
   Downs, an update on state and federal legislation, plus links to more
   than three dozen service providers in California.




                              __________ search
            (*)  My CA
         Link to California's Energy Challenge
         Link to Latest Cal-Vet Interest Rates
         Link to Information About Dependents Educational Assistance
         Link to 'Echoes from the Wall'


                The Veterans Home of California, Chula Vista
                The Veterans Home
                of California


   Special information
   for California veterans:

     * CDVA's Reference Directory for the Veterans Community
     * Free seminar for veterans with DVBEs or small businesses: "How to
       Do Business with the State of California"
     * New! California Veterans Memorial Registry
     * Now available! Make Cal-Vet Home Loan payments via Electronic Funds
       Transfer (EFT)
     * Read the Governor's Commission on California Veterans Homes Report
       (805kb)
     * Hepatitis C Alert and Testing

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
