http://www.accessamerica.gov

   Text Only

   [USEMAP:mainhdr_newyear.gif]
   [USEMAP:mainleftnavs.gif]

                              Privacy Statement


   Vol. 3, No. 11, January 3, 2001
   ISSN: 1531-4448

   Presidential Transition Directory Presidential Transition Directory
   January 20, 2001 ushers in a new Presidential Administration. This
   helpful transition directory has everything -- agency mission
   statements, organization charts, and strategic plans, employment
   information, travel rules, legal and ethical standards. Most everyone
   knows IRS and VA, but what about AARCC, ABMC, and ACF? Thankfully for
   newcomers and old hands alike, it has a full list of government
   acronyms and abbreviations.

   The Information Super
   Highway Meets the Real Highway
   FMCSA Logo Truckers and bus drivers get online to save time and lives
   on America's roads in one of the government's most impressive and
   effective uses of the internet.

   Air Travelers One Stop Air Travelers One-Stop
   Whether you travel by air a little or a lot, this Federal Aviation
   Administration site will make your trip better. Find out what to wear,
   what rules apply to carry-ons, how to transport the family pet, and
   what you need to know if you have a disability. International travelers
   will find links to U.S. Customs Service tips, State Department travel
   advisories, and health advisories from the Centers for Disease Control
   and Prevention. And before you start for the airport, check for flight
   delays.

   Natural Features and Creatures in Your State
   [whoopers.jpg] Need information on floods in Alabama? Streamflow in
   Rhode Island? Earthquakes in Hawaii? Butterflies in West Virginia?
   Birds in South Dakota? Copper mining in Wyoming? Map dealers in
   Kentucky? The U.S. Geological Survey has an amazing webpage that allows
   you to search for maps and data in your state.
   Subscribe to our Free E-Zine
   Win $50,000
   The Job Page

                                In This Issue

   Frightful Weather

   Résumés

   2000 Plum Book

   IT Accessibility Standards

   The New Millennium

   Communicators Guide

   Presidential Transition Directory

   Truckers and Bus Drivers

   Air Travelers One-Stop

   State Data and Maps

                                Issue Archive

   E-Gov

   Test Your Reinvention IQ

   Reinvention Stories

                    Access America E-Gov E-Zine Partners
                     Chief Information Officers Council
               National Partnership for Reinventing Government
                        Federal Communicators Network

                      [hmrardlo.gif] [medal083079.gif]
                                 Statistics
