http://www.rurdev.usda.gov

   Your browser isn't running scripts. There are scripts on this page that
   perform mouse-over effects to emphasize the selection of text graphics
   from the navigation bar. The mouse-overs turn the graphics from navy
   blue to bright green. However, the page also contains text descriptions
   of these menu items.

   Skip navigation bars U S D A Rural Development Online Logo

                                                              Go to text version
   About us: link to information about our programs and services Link to
   business and cooperative program information Link to housing and
   community facilities program information Link to utility program
   information
   Link to information about community development and empowerment Link to
   state office locations Link to news and information Link to
   publications Link to regulations

Hot Links

   Available Funds
   USDA eForms
   Rural Development Forms in Spanish
   Where to Apply
   Properties for Sale
   Success Stories

Today's Feature

   Cover of the Food and Agricultural Policy Report Food and Agricultural
   Policy: Taking Stock for the New Century

   Link to Jan-Feb issue. Rural Cooperatives
   Magazine
          Ag Outlook Forum 2002 Logo: Link to Forum Website


What's New

   Presentation of $5 million check U.S. Senator Charles Grassley presents
   a
   $5 million check from Rural Development for the new Agricultural
   Marketing Center in Ames, Iowa, which will promote value-added
   agriculture. The center will provide farmers with resources, through
   the use of state-of-the-art computer technology, to help them compete
   in the global marketplace.

   Photo, right:  Mary Holz-Clause, Iowa State University (ISU) Extension;
   Don Hofstrand, ISU Extension; Dr. Dan Brown, Rural Development Iowa
   State Director; Senator Charles Grassley; Jeff Jobe, Rural Development
   Cooperative Programs; Dr. Gregory Geoffroy, ISU President.

Rural Development News

   At a recent White House meeting, President George W. Bush and
   Agriculture Secretary Veneman joined 4-H members from Texas and the
   Metropolitan Washington area to officially inaugurate 4-H's 100-year
   anniversary.
   Full Story

   The Department of Agriculture appointed D. Paul Venosdel as the
   California State Director for USDA Rural Development.
   Full Story

   Agriculture Secretary Veneman announced the selection of Northern Maine
   Development Commission, Inc. (Aroostook County) in Maine and Middle Rio
   Grande FUTURO Communities in Texas to receive the designation as the
   latest rural Empowerment Zones (EZs). The selection of these two
   communities brings to 10 the total number of rural Empowerment Zones
   designated since Congress initiated the program in the early 1990s.
   Full Story

   Agriculture Secretary Veneman announced the selection of Gilbert G.
   Gonzalez, Jr. as Deputy Under Secretary for Rural Development.
   Gonzalez's responsibilities include performance and results analysis,
   strategic planning, special initiative development, outreach, and
   application of contemporary business and banking practices to the
   mission area.
   Full Story

   The Department of Agriculture announced more than $260 million in loan
   and grant funds for 24 states to boost bioenergy production, expand
   rural business ventures and improve economic and community development.
   Rural Minnesota will receive $22 million to help widen electric
   distribution, increase business opportunities and improve
   infrastructure.
   Full Story

   National Homeownership Week June 2-9, 2001

   Photos of USDA's Celebration of Homeownership Week in Rural America


   Picture of rural community being developed. Scene shows construction of
   housing, new businesses, and expansion of the infrastructure.

   Search  |  Site Index  |  Employment  |  Disclaimer
   Send Questions/Comments  |  Contact Us About Web Accessibility
   Accessibility Statement  |  Nondiscrimination Statement  |  Privacy
   Statement
   USDA Links:  USDA Home Page  |  Nonprofit Gateway  |  Freedom of
   Information

   Rural Development is within the U.S. Department of Agriculture and
   administers Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service,
   Rural Utilities Service, and Office of Community Development programs.
   U S D A Logo: Link to U S D A Home Page
   FirstGov Logo: Link to firstgov.gov
