http://webawntts.larc.nasa.gov

   [pad.gif]
   [pad.gif] Quick Menu

   COTR Assessment

   TechFinder
   Simple Search
   Advanced Search
   Full Text Search
   Search by Ref Number

   Success Stories
   RTTC Entry Form
   Standard Entry Form

   Technical Support

   [pad.gif] [cdrom.gif]

   NASA Solutions
   If you would like to
   perform a search using
   a reference number from
   the NASA Soutions
   CD ROM, click here.

   [pad.gif] [abba.jpg]

   Web Server
   NASA TechTracS WAN Status
   Contact Us

                                [logoHQ.jpg]
                             [USEMAP:mainHQ.jpg]

     COTR Assessment | Success Stories | TechFinder | Technical Support

                                  [bar.gif]

                        Guidelines for Completing the

                 NASA Commercial Potential Assessment (CPA)

   Thank you for participating in NASA's Commercial Potential Assessment
   (CPA). NASA is a large ($14B) complex (65 programs implemented across
   10 centers) scientific research and development organization with a
   vast array of knowledge and technological assets. These assets have
   potential application to virtually every commercial market that
   exists--a market that is estimated at over $8.5 trillion . Consequently
   NASA has emphasized technology transfer and commercialization as a
   primary NASA mission equal to in importance to its traditional
   aerospace missions. NASA's policy on this all-important mission can be
   found in NASA's Agenda For Change (issued in July 1994) and the more
   recent NPD 7500.2NASA Technology Commercialization Policy (issued in
   March, 2000).

   As described in both policy documents, each NASA activity is
   responsible for assessing and determining its commercial potential with
   regards to existing or anticipated knowledge and technological assets.
   If commercial potential does exist, further tracking of potential
   partnership activities and success stories becomes important.

   The primary "infra-structure" for assisting each NASA activity to turn
   this commercial potential into reality is provided by NASA's Commercial
   Technology Offices (CTOs). As part of this "infra-structure" the CTOs
   are providing this Internet tool to assist NASA managers in their CPA
   task. In most cases the COTR or technical monitor for each activity
   will be the key focal point for the assessment. Discussions with the
   contractor, grantee or partner may be necessary and are encouraged. A
   list of the CTOs center points of contact for the assessment activity
   is available. Click here, or click the COTR icon above to begin the
   assessment.

   The timely identification and reporting of success stories is also
   exceptionally important at this time. In response to the needs of
   several of our customers (Legislative Affairs, Public Affairs, the
   Administrator's Office, etc.) for success stories, the Commercial
   Technology Office at Headquarters has developed a quick and simple
   process which can serve as a common agency wide collection tool which
   will help bring to light successes which may not have otherwise been
   widely known. To report what you may believe to be a success story
   click here or on the success story icon above.

                 Thank you for your cooperation and support

                                  [bar.gif]


   Member of the the NASA Commercial Technology Network. [nctnlogo2.jpg]
   Please send email with bug reports or suggestions to
   support@knowledgesharing.com.
