http://www.eric.ed.gov

   Skip Navigation
   ERIC Search ERIC Database Ask ERIC ERIC Digests
        Publications Resources About ERIC
   Educational Resources Information Center
   Department of Education
   Skip Navigation
   Search Site
   Feedback Form
   Site Map
   FAQ
   Support Components
   EDRS
   Facility
   Adjuncts/Affiliates
   ERIC System Directory

                                 ACCESS ERIC
                             2277 Research Blvd.
                                    MS 4M
                             Rockville, MD 20850
                                800 LET-ERIC
                                800 538-3742
                                 accesseric@
                               accesseric.org

   Skip Navigation
   Adult, Career, and Vocational Education
   Assessment and Evaluation
   Community Colleges
   Counseling and Student Services
   Disabilities and Gifted Education
   Educational Management
   Elementary and Early Childhood Education
   Higher Education
   Information & Technology
   Languages and Linguistics
   Reading, English, and Communication
   Rural Education and Small Schools
   Science, Mathematics, and Environmental Education
   Social Studies/Social Science Education
   Teaching and Teacher Education
   Urban Education

      Start of Main Content New From ERIC


   Updated Monday, January 28, 2002

   Disaster Planning and Response
   A recently updated resource list addressing "Disaster Planning and
   Response" is available from the National Clearinghouse for Educational
   Facilities, an affiliate ERIC Clearinghouse. This list offers links,
   books, and journal articles on emergency preparedness, building or
   retrofitting schools to withstand natural disasters and to shelter
   community members during emergencies. Several new resources have been
   added that reflect the importance of schools' ability to respond to
   terrorist acts.

   The National Science Foundation's Massive Digital Library for
   Education: Opportunities and Challenges for Teachers and Librarians
   The ERIC Clearinghouse on Information and Technology has released a new
   Digest describing the development of a proposed National Science,
   Mathematics, Engineering, and Technology Education Digital Library
   (NSDL). The Library, as proposed, will constitute an online network of
   learning environments and resources serving all levels of education. Of
   particular note in this Digest is the role that teachers and librarians
   should play in shaping this network and, conversely, how their roles
   will be transformed by the advent of such online learning environments.
   This Digest is also available in a PDF format.

   School Construction Data
   The National Clearinghouse for Educational Facilities, an affiliate
   ERIC Clearinghouse, has updated its Construction Data page to include
   data through December, 2001. School construction costs are broken down
   nationally by grade range as well as by project cost per square foot.
   Forecast data through the year 2005, as well as historical data, are
   also available.

   Technological Literacy
   Newly available from the ERIC Clearinghouse on Adult, Career, and
   Vocational Education, this Digest provides information to K-12
   educators about the need and standards for technological literacy and
   the steps necessary to implement those standards.

   Urban Education
   The ERIC Clearinghouse on Urban Education has produced two new Digests
   titled Closing the Achievement Gap: Principles for Improving the
   Educational Success of All Students and Preparing Urban Teachers to Use
   Technology for Instruction.

   Previous January "New From ERIC" highlights

   "New From ERIC" provides weekly updates on additions and changes to the
   Web sites of ERIC Clearinghouses, Adjunct and Affiliate ERIC
   Clearinghouses, and ERIC Support Components. For more detailed
   information about new products available from ERIC and for other ERIC
   updates, please view ERICNews, the ERIC System's monthly newsletter.

               This page was updated on Mon Jan 28 17:26:06 GMT 2002
                                       Clear
          Skip Navigation Search ERIC Database | AskERIC | ERIC Digests |
                       Publications | Resources | About ERIC

                   Search Site | Feedback Form | Site Map | FAQ
           EDRS | Facility | Adjuncts/Affiliates | ERIC System Directory
