http://cjp.ca.gov/filingacomp.htm


  calseal3.gif (18451 bytes)

                                                       State of California
                                               Commission on Judicial Performance

                                                     scales.wmf (2902 bytes)


     Complaint Form
   The Complaint Process

                           HOW TO FILE A COMPLAINT

   Who can file a complaint?

   Anyone. The commission regularly receives complaints from litigants,
   lawyers, members of the public, judges, court staff, legislators and
   others.

   How do I file a complaint?

   Complaints must be in writing. Electronic filing of complaints is not
   yet available. Complaints should be mailed to:

                     COMMISSION ON JUDICIAL PERFORMANCE
                     455 Golden Gate Avenue, Suite 14400
                       San Francisco, California 94102

   What should be in my complaint?

   Complaints should describe in detail what the judge did that you
   believe is misconduct. For example, a complaint should not simply state
   conclusions such as "the judge was rude" or "the judge was biased."
   Instead, the complaint should fully describe what the judge did and
   said. If a court document or an audio or video tape evidences the
   misconduct, you may submit a copy or mention it in your complaint. It
   is helpful if the following information is provided on the complaint
   form:
     * The name and telephone number of any witness to the events
       described.
     * The date or dates on which the conduct occurred.
     * The type of court case involved and your relationship to the case.

   What happens next?

   Each complaint is acknowledged by letter when it is received at the
   commission office. Each complaint submitted to the commission is
   carefully and thoroughly reviewed and investigated as appropriate. It
   is difficult to predict how long it will take for the commission to
   reach a final decision regarding a particular complaint. Some
   complaints can be handled quickly; others are more complex.

   Will I be told what happens to my complaint?

   Each person who submits a complaint is notified in writing after the
   commission’s decision regarding the complaint.

   What types of conduct does the commission investigate?

   Some examples of judicial misconduct are improper demeanor, failure to
   disqualify when the law requires, receipt of information about a case
   outside the presence of a party, abuse of contempt or sanctions, and
   failure to be impartial.  A chart [ Types of conduct resulting in
   discipline ], lists all of the types of conduct disciplined in 2000.

   What if I think the judge's ruling was wrong?

   A judge's error in a decision or ruling -- by itself -- is not
   misconduct.  Appeal may be the only remedy for such an error, or there
   may be no remedy.  Orders as to custody, visitation and setting child
   support, as well as fines and sentences in traffic or criminal cases --
   if not outside the parameters set by law -- are generally within the
   discretion of the trial court and are not usually matters for the
   commission. The California Supreme Court has determined that a judge
   who commits legal error is subject to investigation and possible
   discipline only if the legal error clearly and convincingly reflects in
   addition bad faith, bias, abuse of authority, disregard for fundamental
   rights, intentional disregard of the law, or any purpose other than the
   faithful discharge of judicial duties. [Oberholzer v. Commission on
   Judicial Performance,20 Cal.4th 371 (1999).]

   What can't the commission do?

   The commission is not an appellate court. The commission’s authority is
   limited by law to investigating the complaint and, if appropriate,
   disciplining the judge. The commission does not have the authority to
   issue orders in any case, including ordering anyone to be released from
   jail, granting a new trial, disqualifying a judge from hearing a case,
   assigning a new judge to a case, or granting or changing custody,
   visitation or child support orders. Neither the commission nor its
   staff is authorized to give legal advice or respond to requests for
   assistance with individual legal matters.


   [ Top of Page ]            [ Home ]

   [ 2000 Cases ] [ Commission Membership and Meetings ]
   [ Commission Organization, Staff and Budget ] [ Mandate and History ]
   [ Filing a Complaint ] [ Citations to Supreme Court Decisions ]
   [ Press Releases ] [ Public Discipline 1960 to Present ]
   [ Publications ] [ Other Useful Links ] [ Privacy Statement ]
