http://www.nypa.gov/html/flynn.html

   [ISMAP:loched3.gif]-Top-level navigation bar (see also text links at
   bottom of page): New York Power Authority home page; About NYPA; News;
   Our Locations; Come Visit Us
   [spacer.gif] [ISMAP:locnavfly.gif]-"Our Locations" navigation bar (see
   text links at bottom of page)

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   The Richard M. Flynn Power Plant
   [aborule.gif]

   The Richard M. Flynn Power Plant is an appropriate herald to the new
   competitive era for electric utilities. Generating commercial
   electricity since 1994, it was the first power project to be
   constructed under a New York State program requiring competitive bids
   for new generators.

   Flynn plant photo In 1990 the Long Island Lighting Company (LILCO), the
   region's local utility at that time, chose NYPA over 20 other competing
   interests nationwide to build the plant, rated with a net dependable
   capability of 135,600-kilowatts (kw). We won the competition thanks to
   a design for an efficient, reliable and environmentally sound power
   plant. Today, the Flynn plant operates from Holtsville, Suffolk County,
   under a 20-year contract with the Long Island Power Authority (LIPA),
   the state agency that took over Long Island's electric transmission and
   distribution system in 1998.

   How the Flynn plant scores in fuel efficiency:
   Our secret, at the Flynn plant, is "combined-cycle" technology, which
   allows us to power two generators with just one fuel supply.

   In the first cycle, the fuel—usually natural gas—is burned, with the
   hot gases expanding against turbine blades to power a combustion
   turbine-generator capable of producing about 100,000 kw. Heat exhaust
   that is normally lost during this process is then captured to produce
   steam that powers a steam turbine-generator, capable of producing about
   57,000 kw. While ambient temperature can affect power production, the
   Flynn plant's combined-cycle system generates about 50 percent more
   electricity than the ordinary single-cycle power system would.

   Though owned and operated by the Power Authority, the Flynn plant sells
   all its output to LIPA, which transmits it directly to Long Island
   consumers.

   Good for the environment, too.
   At the Flynn plant, we use natural gas—the cleanest of all fossil
   fuels—as our primary source of energy. We burn gas an average of 329
   days a year, relying on low-sulfur oil as a backup the rest of the
   time.

   LIPA considers economics in deciding which power plants to draw
   electricity from first. And, since price reflects fuel cost and
   efficiency, the Flynn plant is an economical choice.

   The Power Authority also helps Long Islanders meet their electricity
   needs with its Sound Cable Project, which carries power from across the
   state to the Island via an underground and underwater transmission
   line.

   As competition heats up in the electric utility industry, the Power
   Authority has a proven track record of being able to adapt to changing
   public needs with innovative projects, on Long Island and across New
   York State. Our Flynn plant is just one more example of this.

                             Back to top of page

        | About NYPA | News | Our Locations | Come Visit Us | Home |

      | St.Lawrence-FDR | Poletti | Clark | Niagara | Indian Point 3 |

           | Flynn | FitzPatrick | Blenheim-Gilboa | Small Hydro |

              Copyright © 1997-2002   New York Power Authority
