http://www.iceboom.nypa.gov/icehist.htm

   [nypahead.gif]


   [back.gif]

   About the Ice Boom:

   Introduction

   Purpose

   Description

   Location

   History

   Impacts

   Current Images

   Current time-lapse videos

   Listing of Recent Images
   Ice Boom - History

   The Boundary Waters Treaty of 1909 between the United States and Great
   Britain authorized the creation of the International Joint Commission
   (IJC) to oversee matters affecting waters on the U.S. – Canadian
   border. In 1964, the IJC granted the New York Power Authority and
   Ontario Power Generation, Inc. permission to install the Lake
   Erie-Niagara River Ice Boom on a one-year trial basis. The boom was
   originally designed with 286 wooden timbers linked together by steel
   cable at a cost of $1 million. IJC approval for operation of the ice
   boom continued on a year-by-year basis until 1967, when subsequent
   authorizations covered multi-year periods. Presently, the IJC approval
   is reviewed every five years.

   Between 1992 and 1997, the Power Authority, with the support of Ontario
   Power Generation, Inc., began studying alternative ice boom designs to
   further reduce the amount of ice being released from Lake Erie into the
   Niagara River. The studies were the result of a directive from the
   Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which was interested in
   determining whether there were possible measures to reduce the
   potential for ice jamming in the river the effects of ice on the
   operation of the Niagara Power Project.

   The investigation led to a recommendation that the wooden timbers be
   replaced with steel pontoons to increase the resistance to ice
   overtopping the boom. Before replacing all of the timbers, the Power
   Authority and Ontario Power Generation, Inc. conducted a field test
   during the winter of 1996-97 that substituted steel pontoons in five of
   the boom’s 22 spans. This was also the time that the video monitoring
   system for ice conditions was first installed atop Buffalo’s Marine
   Midland Center. The new pontoons proved successful, and the remaining
   timbers in the ice boom were replaced with steel pontoons for the
   winter of 1997-98. In 1997, the IJC modified its Order of Approval for
   the ice boom to remove any reference to the material for the ice boom’s
   pontoons.

   | About NYPA | News | Our Locations | Come Visit Us | Home |
