http://www.parks.wa.gov/agency.asp


   Return to Washington State Park's Home Page Updated 1-01-2002

   Home
   Reservations
   Park Information
   Rental Places
   Activities
   Agency Information
   ADA Recreation
   Site Map & Search


   Agency Information

   The Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission manages a diverse
   system of 125 parks and a variety of recreation programs, including
   boating, cross-country skiing and snowmobiling. State Parks is governed
   by a board of commissioners – a policy-making body of seven citizens
   appointed by the governor to staggered six-year terms – who guide and
   direct the agency. State Parks has a current biennial (two-year) budget
   of just $90 million and employs approximately 490 full-time employees.
   The agency is headquartered in Olympia, Wash., and operates regional
   offices in Wenatchee (Eastern region), Burlington (Northwest region),
   Auburn (Puget Sound region) and Olympia (Southwest region).

   The State Parks Mission
   The Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission acquires,
   operates, enhances and protects a diverse system of recreational,
   cultural, historical and natural sites. The Commission fosters outdoor
   recreation and education statewide to provide enjoyment and enrichment
   for all, and a valued legacy to future generations.

   Commissioners
   Seven citizen commissioners, appointed by the governor, set policy for
   the agency and hire the agency director. State Parks current
   commissioners include Joan Thomas, Seattle; Clyde Anderson, Spokane,
   Bob Petersen, Long Beach; Eliot Scull, Wenatchee; Cecilia Vogt, Yakima;
   Mickey Fearn, Seattle; and Joe Taller, Olympia. For more information on
   State Parks commissioners, see the link on this page.

   Director
   Cleve Pinnix
   Deputy Director
   Frank Boteler

    Sign Up for Our Mailing List

   Wed love to send you informational mailings and announcements of
   special offers. To add your name to the Washington State Parks mailing
   list, click on the link above and complete the form:
   Please use this form ONLY to sign up for our mailing list. To ask
   questions about Washington State Parks, please call us at (360)
   902-8844. To send us comments and feedback please see our contact
   information page.

   We do not share our mailing list with individuals, companies or
   associations.

    Quality Improvement

   In 1997 Gov. Gary Locke issued an executive order calling for better
   public service and more efficient operation in all state government
   agencies through the adoption of concepts and procedures known as
   quality improvement methods. At Washington State Parks, this has
   involved surveying employees to identify needed internal improvements;
   establishing employee teams to address issues, improve processes and
   eliminate unnecessary activities; using the best-available data and
   information to guide decisions; involving customers in decision-making;
   open communication; and employee wellbeing.
    Customer service commitment

   Exceptional customer service is part of on-going quality initiatives at
   State Parks. The employees of the Washington State Parks and Recreation
   Commission feel that customer service is essential to the relationship
   with visitors, partners and colleagues.
   The State Parks mission, values and strategic plans all reflect the
   agencys commitment to provide the general public with the most
   enjoyable recreational experience possible and to help them understand
   and appreciate the natural and cultural heritage of Washington State.
   State Parks employees take pride in their friendliness, enthusiasm and
   genuine dedication to their work and to the public they serve.
    Agency Structure
   Washington State Park Headquarters - Olympia, WA

   The Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission is comprised of
   the following divisions and/or programs:

   Operations division, responsible for park management and region
   offices, environmental learning centers, maintenance and preservation,
   natural resource management, public programs and services, interpretive
   services and park concessionaires.

   Resources development division, responsible for lands acquisition,
   planning and development, engineering, park facilities and
   environmental protection.

   Administrative services division, responsible for boating, winter
   recreation and volunteer programs, the central reservations system,
   information management, agency contracts and all fiscal/budget efforts.

   Public affairs office, responsible for public information, media
   relations, marketing and internal communications.

   Human resources, responsible for all personnel matters, including
   recruiting, hiring and training.

   Enterprise coordination, responsible for developing revenue-generating
   opportunities within the state parks system.

    Most-Requested Contact Information

   Mailing Address
   Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission
   P.O. Box 42650
   Olympia, WA 98504-2669

   Street Address
   Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission
   7150 Cleanwater Lane
   Tumwater, WA 98504-2669

   Internet Address http://www.parks.wa.gov
   Information Center
   Phone: (360) 902-8844
   E-mail infocent@parks.wa.gov

   Campsite Reservations
   Phone: (888) CAMPOUT or (888) 226-7688

   Olympia Headquarters
   Phone: (360) 902-8500
   FAX: (360) 753-1594
   Telephone Device for the Deaf (360) 664-3133

    State Parks History

   An overview of whats happened since the first parks board was
   established in 1913.

    Financial Information

   Where funding comes from and how its spent.

    State Parks Commissioners

   Biographical background on the seven commissioners who oversee
   Washington State Parks.

    More Agency Contacts

   Information on who to contact with specific questions and concerns.

   Washington State Parks Agency
    Commission Meetings

   What was discussed and decided at the most recent State Parks
   Commission meeting, and calendar of upcoming meetings.

    Employment and Volunteer Opportunities

   Opportunities to get involved with Washington State Parks.

    Resource Stewardship

   State Parks resource stewardship program is charged with protecting the
   natural and cultural resources on the agency-owned 250,000 acres.

   Copyright © 2002 Washington State Parks
   Please review our privacy policy.
   Contact us.
   Return to Washington State Park's Home Page

   Home Page | Reservations | Park Information | Rental Places

   Activities  | Agency Information | ADA Recreation

   Site Map & Search
   Washington State Government Information & Services
