http://jlevine.lbl.gov

                               Jonathan Levine


                               Astrogeophysics
            [tharsisette.jpg] [bayfaultette.jpg] [newtonette.jpg]
                 (click for explanations and larger images)

   I am a PhD student at the University of California, Berkeley, in the
   Department of Physics.

   With my research supervisor Richard Muller, who leads the
   astrogeophysics group, I am working on several projects which lie on
   the fuzzy boundaries among physics, geology, and astronomy.  Recently,
   we have been developing what we believe is the best estimate of the
   global ice volume history for the last 800,000 years.  We use this
   Benthic Stack to understand the comings and goings of the ice ages, and
   to test astronomical and physical mechanisms for natural climate
   change.

   Dan Karner is an associate research physicist in the astrogeophysics
   group (though he moonlights as a geochronologist and, once in a while,
   as a nuclear chemist as well).  He works on many interesting projects.

   Before I got to Berkeley, I was hard at work building up credit for
   good weather.  After earning my physics degree from Cornell and a
   geology degree from Oxford, I deserve the glorious view afforded by the
   E.O. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.  To see what I mean, click
   here, and see the view from the lab, about a thousand feet above the
   San Francisco Bay.



   When I'm at cocktail parties, people often ask me, "What do
   astrogeophysicists do?"  If I can't duck the question, this is what I
   answer:

   The principal question we are trying to answer is "How fragile is the
   Earth?"  You see, most people like the Earth much the way it is now.
   And why not?  As a history professor of mine once described the ancient
   Egyptian worldview, "We've got bread.  We've got beer.  It's one big
   party on the fields of Hetep."  But nothing would so severely dampen
   that party atmosphere as suffering the fate which befell our nearest
   planetary neighbors.  Venus, at the beginning of solar system history,
   was endowed with very similar mass, chemical composition, and orbital
   position to Earth's.  But, since that time, the two planets have
   evolved very differently:  Venus now has a crushing atmosphere full of
   carbon dioxide, and a surface temperature of 750°F.  Mars was once warm
   enough to have liquid water running on its surface, like the Earth does
   today.  But, for reasons we still don't know, Mars lost most of its
   water and most of its atmosphere too, and now the warmest places on
   Mars are colder than Antarctica.  Could either of these destinies be in
   store for the Earth?  Robert Frost wrote, "Some say the world will end
   in fire, some say in ice."  By studying the Earth in its context in
   space, and its interaction with its environment in the solar system, we
   hope to understand the physical mechanisms which have molded - and
   continue to shape - our world.


                         [firette.jpg] [icette.jpg]

   One of our particular research interests is in natural climate change.
   The last million years of geologic history have been one long ice age,
   characterized by mile-thick glaciers covering much of North America and
   Europe.  This period has been punctuated by about ten brief warm
   spells, including the one we presently enjoy.  In the Berkeley
   astrogeophysics group, we study mechanisms for driving these great
   climate shifts.  Sometimes, this work requires me to model solar system
   dynamics, using the orbital elements of the planets.  Other times, I
   need to use cloud coverage data taken by a network of NASA and NOAA
   satellites over the past couple of decades.


                   [solarsystemette.jpg] [americaette.jpg]
                     planets                      clouds

   Interesting Links:
   NASA's photo archive of the solar system
   New York Times (you can take the man out of the East, but you can't
   take the East out of the man)
   The Onion, America's self-described finest news source

   or go to Rich's homepage, which describes the work of the group in more
   detail.

   To contact me, send e-mail to jlevine@socrates.berkeley.edu


   Last Modified November 2, 2001.
   You are visitor 7,112,744 to this page since January 13, 2000.
