http://fatherhood.hhs.gov/fi-regions.htm

          Logo of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

                                Department of
                           Health & Human Services
     __________________________________________________________________

                            Fatherhood Initiative
     __________________________________________________________________

                             Around the Regions

   HHS and its Regional Offices are working to coordinate fatherhood
   activities throughout the states and have sponsored a variety of forums
   to bring together local public and private organizations and
   individuals to support fathers' involvement in their families and
   communities.

   Additionally a growing number of states have state-wide fatherhood
   initiatives. Information on some of the private and public sector
   state-wide activities are provided for each region.  Note that the
   designation "State of" or "Commonwealth of" means that the fatherhood
   initiative is a function of a State office or agency.  State-wide
   initiatives without that designation have been initiated and
   implemented by the private sector.  Such private initiatives are
   primarily funded through the private sector, but may also receive some
   state funding.

   To find out what's happening in the area of fatherhood, as it relates
   to HHS programs, initiatives, and responsibilities and other activities
   in the each region, please contact the designated regional HHS staff.
   You can click on the map below or the list of HHS Regions to jump to a
   particular Region.

                 HHS Regions. Click on the Region you want.

     [ Region 1 | Region 2 | Region 3 | Region 4 | Region 5 | Region 6 |
                Region 7 | Region 8 | Region 9 | Region 10 ]

   Regional web pages: Click on the Region name below to go to the
   Region's web page.

   Regional Directors: http://www.hhs.gov/iga/regions.html

   State Child Support Offices:
   http://www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/cse/extinf.htm#exta

   Additional information on grants and projects supporting fatherhood
   activities are profiled in the federal guidance developed by six
   federal departments, Meeting the Challenge:  What the Federal
   Government Can Do to Support Responsible Fatherhood Efforts.
                     ___________________________________

Region 1

   (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and
   Vermont)

   Hugh Galligan
   Regional Administrator
   Administration for Children and Families
   John F. Kennedy Federal Building, Rm 2000
   Government Center
   Boston, MA 02203
   Phone: 617-565-1020
   Fax: 617-565-2493

  Hub Activity

   As part of the Northeast Hub's initiative to engage our 16 states and
   jurisdictions in the Department's Fatherhood Initiative, Regions I, II,
   and III hosted a Hub conference in Boston entitled Responsible
   Fatherhood: Strengthening Children, Families, and Communities on August
   30-September 1, 2000. The conference brought together 275 leaders,
   practitioners and policy makers to focus on developing state and
   community leadership, commitment and action for helping fathers
   participate in the financial, emotional and intellectual support of
   their children. Additionally, we continue to develop support for
   reaching out to new dads who have established paternity in ways that
   help them acquire the skills necessary to provide, parent and partner
   for the healthy development of their children.

  Regional Collaboration

   Hugh Galligan, the Region I Regional Administrator represents ACF and
   participates in activities at the national level such as NPCL's Peer
   Leadership College, the Fragile Families demonstration, National Head
   Start Association events and national work groups addressing Access and
   Visitation and other Child Support issues. At the state level, the
   Regional Administrator played a key facilitating role in Massachusetts
   with the Governor's Advisory Commission on Responsible Fatherhood and
   Family Support effort to develop a statewide plan for providing
   employment and parenting services to low-income noncustodial parents.

   Region I provides leadership and support for father and male
   involvement initiatives in the region's Head Start and Early Head Start
   programs through the Good Guys initiative. In May 2000, Region I in
   concert with the Office of Child Support Enforcement and the Urban
   Institute, convened a forum to discuss strategies to connect the dads
   who establish paternity each year with resources to help them acquire
   the skills necessary to provide, parent, and partner for the healthy
   development of their children.

   Current year efforts have included peer to peer technical assistance to
   six Massachusetts Head Start grantees. The Regional Office also
   produced a Head Start/Early Head Start Self-Assessment Toolkit that
   includes a section designed to help grantees begin to assess their
   father friendliness. In Massachusetts, the Regional Office partnered
   with local agencies and organizations, community-based programs,
   foundations, advocates, and media, to develop materials and community
   events, such as the Children's Trust Fund's Fatherhood Kit and the
   Annual Father's Day celebrations in Boston (4^th year) and Springfield
   (3^rd year). These activities help raise public awareness about the
   value of responsible fathering and increase community awareness about
   programs, services, and resources for dads and families.

   In a collaborative partnership with a Head Start program, the National
   Practitioners Network for Fathers and Families (NPNFF), the MA Child
   Support agency, The Medical Foundation's For Fathering Project, MA
   Children's Trust Fund, and a large family services agency, Region I
   produced the Second Annual New England-wide Fathering Conference
   entitled Fathering: What a Difference It Makes! in March 2001. Over 350
   Head Start grantees, early childhood providers, parent educators, and
   community-based social service and fatherhood programs providers
   attended the conference which provided participants with insights,
   skills, networking opportunities and resources about fathering and
   fatherhood programs. Featuring presentations by national experts such
   as Dr. Kyle Pruett and Neil Tift as well as workshop sessions on
   evidence based fatherhood curricula, workforce development, and child
   support, the conference also honored individuals who have provided
   leadership in promoting and celebrating fatherhood throughout New
   England.

  State Activity

    Massachusetts

   Access and Visitation. Massachusetts provides unwed parents with
   courses in parenting education and on how to proceed through the court
   system. The expected outcome is that parenting plans will be developed
   by and for noncustodial and custodial parents. Contact Beth Winik at
   (617) 626-4182.

    Rhode Island

   Access and Visitation. Rhode Island continues to provide court-based
   mediation programs and supervised visitation services that are
   scheduled to accommodate parents with traditional working hours. The
   Rhode Island Family Court is also planning to develop a brochure and
   educational video for children of divorced or separated parents that
   specifically address the realities of parental separation and offer
   suggestions for coping with a change in family structure. Contact
   George Dimuro at (401) 458-5320.

Region 2

   (New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands)

   Mary Ann Higgins
   Northeast Hub Director
   Department of Health and Human Services
   Administration for Children and Families
   26 Federal Plaza, Room 4114
   New York, NY 10278
   Phone: 212-264-2890, ext. 103
   Fax: 212-264-4826

  Hub Activity

   As part of the Northeast Hub's initiative to engage our 16 states and
   jurisdictions in the Department's Fatherhood Initiative, Regions I, II,
   and III hosted a Hub conference in Boston entitled Responsible
   Fatherhood: Strengthening Children, Families, and Communities on August
   30-September 1, 2000. The conference brought together 275 leaders,
   practitioners and policy makers to focus on developing state and
   community leadership, commitment and action for helping fathers
   participate in the financial, emotional and intellectual support of
   their children.

  State Activity

    New Jersey

   Access and Visitation. New Jersey established a Child Access and
   Parenting Time (Visitation) Advisory Group to address access and
   parenting needs of children of unwed, divorced, or separated parents.
   This on-going advisory group recently developed a pamphlet entitled
   "Parenting Time: A Child's Right" which will be distributed to all
   county courthouses as well as local police stations. The activities of
   the advisory group are in addition to the provision of specific access
   & visitation programs including mediation, parent education, children's
   programs, supervised parenting time, neutral drop-off/pick-up, and site
   and therapeutic services. Contact Mary DeLeo at (609) 984-7793.

    New York

   Access and Visitation. New York intends to fund local proposals for a
   wide range of access and visitation services. The State will also use
   TANF funds to jointly fund job and child access services to assist
   low-income, noncustodial parents fulfill their child support
   obligations. Contact Judith Smith at (518) 486-4611.

Region 3

   (Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, and the
   District of Columbia)

   Juanita Devine
   Regional Program Manager for Child Support Enforcement
   Department of Health and Human Services
   Administration for Children and Families
   150 South Independence Mall, West, Suite 864
   Philadelphia, PA 19106-3499
   Phone: 215-861-4054
   Fax: 215-861-4070

  Hub Activity

   As part of the Northeast Hub's initiative to engage our 16 states and
   jurisdictions in the Department's Fatherhood Initiative, Regions I, II,
   and III hosted a Hub conference in Boston entitled Responsible
   Fatherhood: Strengthening Children, Families, and Communities on August
   30-September 1, 2000. The conference brought together 275 leaders,
   practitioners and policy makers to focus on developing state and
   community leadership, commitment and action for helping fathers
   participate in the financial, emotional and intellectual support of
   their children.

  Regional Collaboration

   In May 2000, Region III staff conducted a workshop at The International
   Fatherhood Conference in New York, NY sponsored by the National Center
   for Strategic Nonprofit Planning and Community Leadership (NPCL). The
   workshop titled, Child Support 101: Part II, was designed to provide
   in-depth information overview of the child support enforcement system
   for fatherhood program administrators and participants. Region III
   developed case scenarios and mock child support guidelines for
   participants to walk through child support cases and to develop mock
   child support orders using various guideline formulas.

   In October 2000, Region III staff, in concert with DOL, conducted a
   session entitled: Supporting Non Custodial Parents in the Labor Force
   and Through Fatherhood Initiatives at the National Black Child
   Development Institute [BCDI] Conference. This presentation discussed
   how the Federal Welfare-to-Work Program administered by the Department
   of Labor has expanded the eligibility requirements for noncustodial
   parents to provide employment, training and support services. There was
   an examination of strategies for providing supports necessary to
   address the concerns of fragile families. The session explored how the
   Work Force Investment Act, the National Center for Strategic Nonprofit
   Planning and Community Leadership along with the Child Support
   Enforcement Program impact on supporting responsible fatherhood.

   At the August 2000 Bi-Regional (Region II and III) IV-D Directors
   Meeting in Norfolk, VA, a keynote address on Responsible Fatherhood was
   provided by Jeffery Johnson, the President and CEO of the National
   Center for Strategic Nonprofit Planning and Community Leadership
   (NPCL).

   Region III staff assisted in structuring the workshops for the
   Noncustodial Parents Track included in DOL's National Conference,
   Welfare to Work-Beyond 2000: Building the Future, which convened in
   Phoenix, Arizona in October 2000. Region III staff, in concert with the
   Pennsylvania Bureau of Child Support Enforcement, conducted a workshop
   that provided an overview of the Child Support Enforcement Program.

   Region III received local press coverage on its presentation at a
   one-day workshop for fathers, which was sponsored by the Father's Day
   Rally Committee, Inc. on October 28, 2000. Region III along with the
   Pennsylvania Bureau of Child Support Enforcement provided a Federal
   overview on the Child Support Enforcement to an audience of young
   fathers as a result of participation in the ACF Northeast HUB
   Fatherhood Conference.

    Delaware

   Access and Visitation. Delaware has established special visitation
   centers where parents can safely exchange children and where visitation
   with conflicted cases can be monitored and supervised. Delaware is also
   considering telephone or teleconferencing with children and their
   incarcerated parents. Contact Cynthia Lovell at (302) 577-4955x262.

    District of Columbia

   Amnesty Week 2000. As a spin-off of a Region III DC Metro Project, the
   District joined Maryland and Northern Virginia in Amnesty Week 2000,
   which occurred in September 2000. This initiative allowed non-custodial
   parents with outstanding child support warrants coming into local
   offices to start paying overdue support without the fear of arrest.
   Over 1,200 non-custodial parents in the District were notified that an
   arrest warrant that had been issued but not served would be quashed if
   the obligor agreed to make a good faith payment and consent to wage
   withholding. As a result of radio, television and print media
   announcements of Amnesty Week 2000, this joint project was a tremendous
   success in all jurisdictions. The District collected over $65,000 in
   child support directly attributable to this program. More importantly,
   179 wage withholdings were processed which will result in over $400,000
   additional collections during the next year.

   Access and Visitation. The District of Columbia provides a hotline for
   parents with access and visitation problems to provide them with
   education and information materials and service referrals that will
   help solve their parenting problems. Contact Laurie Ensworth at (202)
   724-2114.

   Community Fatherhood Forum on Strengthening Families by Strengthening
   Fathers -- On March 22-23, 2001, the National Practitioners Network for
   Fathers and Families (NPNFF) held a forum to offer opportunities for
   fathers, community-based organizations and government agencies to
   address and identify the needs of fathers to develop an action plan for
   fatherhood and men's' programs in the District of Columbia. . The Child
   Support Enforcement Division (CSED) will be working with NPNFF and 8
   other community organizations to enhance men's' access to services and
   community-based programs. The other organizations include the
   Children's Rights Council, the D.C. Department of Health, D.C. Public
   Schools Head Start Programs, Men on the Move, National Center for
   Strategic Non-Profit Planning and Community Leadership (NPCL), National
   Organization of Concerned Black Men, Inc., Religious Affairs, and
   Significant Male Task Force Programs.

    Maryland

   (State of) Maryland Fatherhood Initiative
   Phone: 410-767-4982
   http://www.Fatherhoodmd.org

   The Maryland Department of Human Resources oversees several fatherhood
   programs to support strong and healthy fathers. The Baltimore Partners
   for Fragile Families is one of ten national demonstration sites to
   serve low-income fathers and families who are at risk of welfare
   dependency. Dad's Make a Difference is a project aimed to educate youth
   about the importance of fathers in children's lives, parental
   responsibility and deferring parenthood until they are financially and
   emotionally ready. Maryland's Access and Visitation Program provides
   services through non-profit organizations, local department of social
   services and family courts. Its aim is to focus on advocacy and
   services for non-custodial fathers including mediated visitation,
   neutral drop off centers, counseling services, support group activities
   and parenting contract development. The Responsible Choices
   Demonstration Project provides home visitation services to young
   first-time unmarried parents and two-parent families. Participants
   receive parenting courses, counseling, educational and job skills
   assistance. The Responsible Fatherhood Demonstration Project provides
   services to low income, non-custodial fathers of families who are
   receiving or at risk of receiving temporary cash assistance or other
   social services. It offers assistance in job skill enhancement,
   parenting courses, problem resolution and co-parenting skills. The
   Young Fathers-Responsible Fathers Program provides services to young
   unwed or expectant fathers. Services address participant educational,
   vocational, social, emotional and mental health issues. Dads All
   Deserve Support (DADS) is a group designed to actively support fathers
   and soon to be fathers in their various roles as a caring adult. This
   activity-based program looks to connect men with any services necessary
   to become and remain positive community models.

   Access and Visitation. Maryland provides a mix of services through
   community-based organizations such as mediation, counseling, design of
   alternative custody arrangements, as well, as supervised and neutral
   drop-off and pickup sites. In some cases, these programs are used in
   conjunction with job services to provide comprehensive responsible
   fatherhood projects. Contact Donna Sims at (410) 767-7876.

   TANF. Maryland's Young Fathers Responsible Fathers Programs (YFRF) is
   one of six father-focused initiatives in the State. The YFRP program
   does not provide financial assistance. However, it does provide
   services to custodial and noncustodial fathers such as parenting,
   education, family planning, GED instruction, job training,
   employment-search assistance, and self-esteem building. The program has
   seven sites in six counties and one located in Baltimore that serves
   young fathers, age 16 and up, who have one or more children. YFRF
   programs also encourage co-parenting for noncustodial fathers.

   In addition, Maryland's Youthbuild Sandtown Program (YSP), a subsidiary
   of Youthbuild USA, serves low-income at-risk youth, ages 16-24, in the
   West Baltimore Sandtown community. The program has a requirement that
   25 percent of its program participants must be female. Seventy-five
   percent of the participants are school dropouts, teenage parents,
   single parents, noncustodial fathers or juvenile offenders who are
   given a second chance. Nationally, the Youthbuild program model has an
   86 percent success rate with graduates going to college, and into the
   labor force earning an average of $11 an hour. The purpose of the
   program is to enhance the motivation, performance, and self-esteem of
   youth, and is thus reasonably calculated to achieve the third goal of
   the TANF law, the reduction of out of wedlock pregnancies.

   State Owed Child Support Arrears Leveraging Program.This program
   provides opportunities for non-custodial parents (NCPs), who owe child
   support arrears to the State, to have arrears credited in meeting
   program criteria. NCPs who successfully complete the program
   requirements of the community-based organizations involved in the
   project, and who also pay the current child support obligation(s), are
   eligible to have a portion of the arrears owed to the State credited to
   them. Participating associates in support of this effort are Baltimore
   City Department of Social Services Young Fathers/Responsible Fathers
   Program, Christopher's Place Employment Academy, the Center for
   Fathers, Families and Workforce Development, the Empower Baltimore
   Management Corporation, and the Baltimore City Office of Child Support
   Enforcement represented by MAXIMUS Corporation.

   Amnesty Week 2000. During 2000, Maryland initiated a five-day amnesty
   program that allowed non-custodial parents with outstanding child
   support warrants to come into local offices to start paying overdue
   support without the fear of arrest. As a spin-off of a Region III DC
   Metro Project, Maryland invited the District of Columbia and Northern
   Virginia to join forces in this successful project. This metro
   initiative included an extensive media campaign throughout the metro
   area. Maryland's statistics revealed that over $400,000 was collected
   statewide, with 4,860 non-custodial parents participating. There were
   1,474 parents who established wage withholdings, and over 500 parents
   were referred to employment and social service programs.

    Pennsylvania

   (Commonwealth of) Pennsylvania Fatherhood Initiative
   Derrick Span, Director of the Project for Community Building
   Phone: 717-787-7401
   http://sites.state.pa.us/fatherhood.html

   The Department of Public Welfare (DPW) and Education fund the Education
   Leading to Employment and Career Training (ELECT) program which enables
   teen fathers who are enrolled in school and on welfare to receive help
   earning their high school diploma, as well as job-preparation,
   responsible parenting and decision-making skills. The DPW's Single
   Point of Contact/Pregnant and Parenting Youth program provides services
   to teen fathers. Non-custodial dads, ages 18-22, whose children are on
   welfare, can receive job training, parenting skills and help earn their
   GED. DPW is developing fatherhood programs at eight to 10 Family
   Centers around the State to provide non-custodial fathers with
   education and employment services, peer counseling, parenting and life
   skills training. The DPW uses its Access and Visitation grants to
   enhance the opportunity for personal contact between non-custodial
   fathers and their children. The Domestic Relations Section of the
   Courts administers the funds and awards funds through competitive bids
   to local organizations. The goals are to strengthen the relationship
   between non-custodial parents and their children, to increase child
   support payments, and to unify families. Services include mediation,
   counseling, education, development of parenting plans, and visitation
   services. Twenty-eight Private Industry Councils across the State use a
   portion of their Welfare-to-Work grants to offer employment, retention,
   advancement and training services for non-custodial parents.

   The Pennsylvania Fatherhood Initiative is part of Governor Tom Ridge's
   project of community building, which includes a number of initiatives
   aimed at empowering individuals and building communities at the
   grassroots level. The Pennsylvania Parenting Program (PPP) is a key
   component of the Pennsylvania Fatherhood Initiative. Projects funded
   through the PPP grant program, which is funded totally with State
   dollars, are designed to complement the existing Federal Access and
   Visitation Grant programs. In January 2001, DPW awarded grants to six
   human services organizations to strengthen the role that fathers play
   in the lives of their children. One university, two county government
   agencies, and three nonprofit agencies received PPP grant awards. The
   monies awarded will be used to: increase noncustodial parents'
   involvement with their children; improve their parenting skills;
   increase payment of child support; provide supportive services to
   parents; and unify families. Services can include peer-mentoring,
   parenting, life-skills and employment training, legal services and
   other family assistance. Other departmental initiatives can be viewed
   on the fatherhood website under the Department of Education, Department
   of Health, Department of Corrections and Board of Probation and Parole,
   Department of Community and Economic Development, and the Department of
   Labor and Industry.

   Partners for Fragile Families Child Demonstration/ Project Chester
   County Family Matters Program. The Administration for Children and
   Families approved the Chester County, Pennsylvania proposal for a
   Partners for Fragile Families child support waiver demonstration
   project under Section 1115 of the Social Security Act. The Chester
   County Demonstration Project, known as the Family Matters Program, is a
   collaborative effort involving the Chester County Domestic Relations
   Section, the Chester County Housing Development Corporation, and the
   Housing Authority of the County of Chester. The program is designed to
   serve low-income, noncustodial, never-married fathers, between the ages
   of 16-25. The services offered under the program include: case
   management; education; fatherhood development; substance abuse
   treatment as needed; legal assistance; financial planning skill
   education; employment services; child support services; and parenting
   skill building.

   The collaborating organizations share a mutual goal to provide a wide
   range of supportive services for low and very low-income noncustodial
   fathers and their families, as deemed appropriate and necessary based
   on the availability of resources. The ultimate goal of the partnership
   is to increase child support and to strengthen the positive influence
   of fathers in the lives of their children.

   Allegheny County. This program is designed to facilitate gainful
   employment of non-custodial parents (NCPs) and encourage regular child
   support payments over a significant period of time. By doing so,
   families of non-custodial Welfare recipients will benefit financially
   and should move off welfare more rapidly. To assist NCPs, the Goodwill
   Foundation will pay a percentage of the participant's arrears as they
   complete significant program benchmarks toward employment and
   compliance with child support obligations. The maximum grant is $5,000.
   In addition, the child support order can be modified during the
   enrollment period prior to employment to assist participants with
   successful completion of the program. Most NCPs will participate for a
   minimum of 25 hours per week for a maximum of six months (or until
   full-time employment is achieved). Specific activities include:
   Objective Assessment and Individual Service Strategy Development;
   Parenting and Life Skills Training; Adult Basic Education and G.E.D.
   Instruction; Job Search/Job Placement Assistance; Driver's Education
   and Acquisition of a vehicle as needed for employment purposes through
   Goodwill's auto auction; Case Management; Short-term training (employer
   specific/entrepreneurial); Post-Employment Career development; and
   Mental Health/Drug and Alcohol Assessment. Twenty participants were
   enrolled in the program. As of 12/31/00, 2 have completed the program,
   14 are actively participating and 4 were terminated for non-compliance.
   Fifteen participants are currently employed with a mean wage per hour
   of $7.74.

   Erie County. In September of 1994, the Training Employment Project
   (TEP) was institutionalized to provide training and employment
   opportunities to absent parents so: defendants can meet their support
   obligation in a timely fashion; a positive attitude can be nourished
   through the maintenance of viable employment, which may improve the
   lifestyle of children in the community; the community will benefit from
   a work force able to contribute to society; time and money is saved in
   the ability to effectively measure a "good faith" effort in obtaining
   employment so an Order for Support can be entered and enforced. The
   success rate at this time is 100%.

   This Program operates at no additional cost to the taxpayers. Erie
   County DRS did not hire an additional officer to staff the TEP program
   ... it is a specialty added to the duties of a conference/enforcement
   officer. Administratively speaking, this program saves the County of
   Erie money because our caseload is streamlined. Businesses involved in
   the program hire our defendants that were Court Ordered to appear for
   assessment and employment. If our defendants refuse employment, do not
   appear, are tardy, or disrupt the operation of a company, they will be
   brought before the court for contempt. The DRS has a good working
   relationship with the Community Service Program operated by the Erie
   County Adult Probation/Parole Department. If the defendants refuse to
   work for a wage to pay child support, we have deterred apathy by giving
   them the opportunity to work for nothing. It is a successful form of
   therapy.

   In another initiative, Erie County DRS formed a partnership with the
   Fathers Workshop in 1998 in an effort to help incarcerated fathers
   interact effectively with their children. Using a support system
   provided by the Fathers Workshop, the goal is to change attitudes and
   behaviors and the established pattern of willful failure to pay support
   may be reversed. In November of 1998, as a collaborative program, DRS
   began serving as a conduit between the Work Release Program, the
   Fathers Workshop, and the Court in suspending sentences for DRS
   defendants if they pay: a) support as ordered for 60 days; b) rent to
   Work Release and abide by their regulations, c) cost and fees; and, d)
   participate immediately with the Fathers Workshop and for sixty days
   (and continue to do so for a total of six months once released).

   In Contempt Court, the Judge offers the privilege of early release if
   defendants honor the conditions. After sixty days lapsed, a Work
   Release Representative sends DRS a form statement claiming that all the
   conditions were met in their facilities. If support was paid as
   ordered, an Early Release would be processed. The case would be
   monitored and if the defendant would default, they would be apprehended
   and imprisoned to serve the remainder of his term. There are no second
   chances in the Early Release Program.

   The goal of the program was projected at "70 % of those who complete
   the program will result in 100% collection of child support." DRS will
   measure the success of the program through pre and post assessment
   using the Monthly Support Order and over-due support from the date
   fathers became enrolled with the program and over-due support one year
   later. It is too early to measure the success of the program because it
   is still in an infancy stage; however, it does serve as a vehicle to
   free space for defendants from other areas of the Court. Published
   percentages of the effectiveness of the Fathers Workshop will be
   available in July of 2001.

   The Fathers Workshop and the Training Employment Program are carefully
   coordinated to ensure favorable results.

   Huntingdon County. Utilizing the automated system (PASCES), the
   Domestic Relations Section identifies cases eligible for referral to
   the Welfare to Work program. These clients are given a choice of a
   monetary order or registering with work programs. Directly following
   the meeting with the Hearing Officer, the client meets with caseworkers
   who carefully explain the Order. The client has an opportunity to
   immediately appeal the order. If the client chooses to register with a
   work program, and is not eligible for the Welfare to Work program,
   there is a referral to other contracted programs (OVR, SPOC, Up Front
   etc.).

   Strong individual case management and collaboration with the Welfare to
   Work Program, the County Judge and the County Assistance Office are
   keys to the success of this program. Through this program, both the NCP
   and CP can obtain the same benefits to education, training, re-training
   and re-direction into the job market.

   Philadelphia County. The Networking for Jobs Program (NJP) is a Family
   Court initiative designed to provide access to job training and
   employment opportunities for those least able to obtain these services
   on their own. The main focus of NJP is to link unemployed, noncustodial
   parents (NCPs) with at least one child with an active TANF case with
   the resources they need to enable the NCP to become self-sufficient and
   better able to pay their support obligations. Although primarily aimed
   at NCPs with children on welfare, NJP also has limited resources
   available to non-welfare custodial and non-custodial parents. The
   Networking for Jobs Program provides parents with: coordinated,
   comprehensive job training; identification of jobs resources; job banks
   and information referral systems; assistance in job application and
   resume preparation; mentoring and support services; alternatives to
   criminal and delinquent behavior.

   The objectives of the Networking for Jobs Program: Change Attitudes;
   Develop Marketable Jobs Skills; Enable Employment; Increase Amount and
   Regularity of Child Support Payments.

    Virginia

   (State of) Virginia Fatherhood Campaign
   Phone: 804-692-0400

   Ron J. Clark, Director of Fatherhood Programs

   The VA Department of Public Health has instituted a campaign to
   encourage men to "be a good dad". The State conducted focus groups with
   fathers to determine what kinds of materials and media coverage would
   be most effective. Fathers said they wanted to see ordinary men like
   themselves. Virginia has designed their public service announcement
   around the average dad, and has distributed their materials at sporting
   events, barber shops and other places that young men frequent. There is
   ongoing collaboration between the Division of Child Support
   Enforcement, within the Department of Social Services, and the
   Commonwealth's Fatherhood Campaign.

   Access and Visitation. Virginia opts to administer its program through
   local government and non-profit private agencies. Services provided to
   parents include mediation, supervised visitation, and parenting
   education. Development of parenting plans is the expectation from these
   projects. Contact Robert M. Pyndell at 804-692-1479 email:
   rmp900@dcse.dss.state.va.us.

   TANF. Virginia is using TANF funds to operate its Right Choices for
   Youth (RCFY) Program that provides non-assistance services and
   benefits. The program also targets middle and high school youth and
   adults who influence the youth population (parents, community leaders,
   teachers, youth workers). The objective of the program is to build the
   capacity of State, public, and private entities to work with regional,
   community/local entities to implement and carryout comprehensive youth
   risk behavior prevention programs. Their focus will include
   strengthening of parent-child communications, promotion of responsible
   and involved fatherhood, and development of parenting skills. For more
   information regarding the fatherhood projects in Virginia, please
   contact Mark Golden, Acting TANF Program Manager, at (804) 692-1731.

   In addition, Virginia uses TANF funds to operate its Opportunity Knocks
   Program that provides non-assistance and services to Virginia's
   disadvantaged youth and those at-risk (18-25). Even though these
   individuals must be TANF recipients or qualify as TANF-eligible
   (including noncustodial parents), the program design is to meet the
   needs of youth that have not fared well in traditional programs. The
   goal of the program is to provide transitional assistance that moves
   individuals into lasting and unsubsidized employment leading to
   economic self-sufficiency.

   Virginia also use its TANF funds to operate its Economic Employment
   Improvement Program which provides services for disadvantaged persons
   and targets individuals returning to the community from Federal and
   State correctional institutions, chronically unemployed or
   hard-to-employ, and those displaced by technical advances in industry.

    West Virginia

   Access and Visitation. West Virginia commissioned a statewide survey of
   noncustodial parents as a way to ascertain the barriers to child access
   and visitation. Summary results of the survey indicated that visitation
   might be easier to expedite if there were more educational resources
   available to noncustodial and custodial parents regarding visitation
   rights, in addition, to the opportunity for voluntarily negotiating a
   parenting agreement as an alternative to court. The need for supervised
   visitation and neutral drop-off and pick-up sites were also reported.
   Contact Susan Perry at (304) 558-0909.

   Child Support and TANF

   The West Virginia Bureau for Child Support Enforcement (BCSE), WV
   Bureau for Children and Families (TANF), WV Bureau for Employment
   Programs (BEP), the Human Resource Development Foundation, and the
   Domestic Violence Coalition have formed a partnership to fund and
   support a four-county pilot initiative called Parents Work/Families
   Win. Parents Work/Families Win Program is operated by Human Resource
   Development Foundation and is designed to assist unemployed and/or
   under-employed individuals to obtain employment that will enable them
   to meet their child support obligations and develop strong, positive
   relationships with their children.

   In September 2000, the West Virginia Bureau for Child Support
   Enforcement (BCSE) entered into a cooperative agreement with BEP and
   HRDF. This agreement allows the BCSE to provide a list of non-custodial
   parents who may be eligible for the program. Non-custodial parents must
   have a child who is eligible for TANF, Food Stamps, Medicaid, Social
   Security or Children's Health Insurance Program, and owe $500.00 or
   more in arrears to be eligible for the program. Eligible participants
   will be offered assistance with employment, transportation, special
   needs, car repairs and insurance, professional licenses, counseling and
   relocation services if necessary. Parents Work/ Families Win actually
   kicked off in January 2001 and is being piloted in Preston, Monongalia,
   Raleigh and Wyoming counties.

   In addition to PWFW, BSCE is also working with New Connections, a local
   non-profit group, to provide paternity and child support education to
   young fathers in a friendly, non-threatening environment. For more
   information regarding West Virginia's Fatherhood Initiatives, please
   contact Rita Dobrich, TANF Program Manger, at (304) 558-5202, or Mary
   S. Bolten, Paternity Outreach Coordinator, at (304) 558-3716.

Region 4

   (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina,
   South Carolina, and Tennessee)

   Deric Gilliard
   Regional Affairs Specialist
   Sam Nunn Atlanta Federal Center
   61 Forsyth Street, SW, Suite 5B95
   Atlanta, Georgia 30303-8909
   Phone: 404-562-7910
   Fax: 404-562-4197

   Gwen Johnson
   Social Services Director
   Department of Health and Human Services
   Administration for Children and Families/Head Start
   Sam Nunn Atlanta Federal Center
   61 Forsyth St, SW, Suite 4M60
   Atlanta, GA 30303-8909
   Phone: 404-562-2835
   Fax: 404-562-2982

  Regional Collaboration

   The Administration for Children and Families (ACF) ( Regions IV and VI)
   and with support from the Welfare Peer Technical Assistance Network,
   held a workshop on non-custodial parents on January 18 and 19, 2001, in
   Tallahassee, Florida. Workshop participants included individuals
   representing the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and the
   Office of Child Support Enforcement (OCSE) from the states of
   Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Tennessee and Florida.

   The purpose of the workshop, Addressing the Needs of Non-Custodial
   Parents in TANF Families, was to build a common language and
   understanding of the issues surrounding welfare reform and
   non-custodial parents. In particular, promoting inter-agency
   collaborative strategies that effectively engage non-custodial
   parents-financially and emotionally-with their children. The workshop
   addressed the following issues:
     * Welfare Reform and the role for/impact of non-custodial parents
     * Effective strategies to engage non-custodial parents
     * Issues pertaining to incarcerated fathers
     * Financing fatherhood programs
     * Collaboration between TANF and OCSE
     * Engaging legislators in policy discussion and development

   It is estimated that one-third of the children in the United States
   live in a household headed by a single parent. Many of these children
   do not have a positive relationship with their fathers. Recent studies
   suggest that poverty and the lack of strong bonds with a responsible
   father is associated with negative child outcomes, such as high school
   dropout rates, increased risk of juvenile delinquency and substance
   abuse, and higher rates of teenage pregnancy. In recent years,
   practitioners and researches have become aware of the barriers to
   responsible fatherhood, and several programs have been developed to
   address the needs of low-income non-custodial parents. As fathers are
   able to meet their child support payment, they are also more likely to
   become emotionally connected to their children, thus reducing the risks
   of negative outcomes among our youngest generations.

   Central to effective programs addressing the complex needs of
   non-custodial parents and their children is the collaboration of TANF
   and OCSE agencies. The workshop emphasized funding opportunities
   available to agencies to develop services and programs for
   non-custodial parents.

   The full report on the workshop "Addressing the Needs of Non-Custodial
   Parents in TANF Families" has been posted on the Welfare Peer Technical
   Assistance Network under the TA Reports section. You can find it under
   "What's New" and under "TA Events" (Two ways to get there from the TA
   events page are via "chronological list" and via "hard to serve/multi
   barriers." The direct address for the report is:
   http://www.calib.com/peerta/whatsnew/pdf/ncpworkshop.pdf.

  State Activity

    Alabama

   Access and Visitation. Alabama provides an advisory group to coordinate
   agency and interest groups for the discussion of access and visitation
   issues to point the way for improved programs and policies including
   custody and visitation statutes. They will also train judges and staff
   on access and visitation issues. The program operates four pilot
   projects on mediation and parental education for a primarily unwed
   population in rural and urban settings. Contact Peg Walker at (334)
   242-0300

   TANF. Alabama TANF funds will provide funding for a Fatherhood
   Initiative that will be transferred to the Children's Trust Fund (CTF)
   over the next two years to establish and oversee the program. Plans are
   to fund community projects to prevent early and unplanned fatherhood,
   strengthen relationships between fathers and children, and to increase
   child support payments by providing work and training opportunities.
   Additionally, Alabama has three fatherhood activities that are funded
   under the Welfare-to-Work program that targets the hardest-to-employ
   welfare recipients.

    Florida

   (State of) Florida Commission on Responsible Fatherhood
   Phone: 850-488-4952
   www.fcorf.org

   Matthew D. Munyon, Executive Director

   The Florida Commission on Responsible Fatherhood's goals are to raise
   public awareness of problems created when a child grows up without a
   responsible father present, identify obstacles that impede or prevent
   the involvement of responsible fathers in the lives of their children,
   and promote successful strategies to encourage responsible fatherhood.
   Ten million dollars in TANF funds are being administered by the Florida
   Commission on Responsible Fatherhood to fund local efforts to help
   fathers remain involved with their children.

   TANF. In Florida, the local WAGES (Work and Gain Economic
   Self-Sufficiency) coalitions that administer the TANF program are
   funding programs targeting fathers, including employment-focused
   programs that require that fathers [who are delinquent in child
   support] find work or go to jail. Another project targets fathers of
   Head Start children for help with computer training, entrepreneurial
   skills and self-empowerment.

    Georgia

   (State of) Georgia Fatherhood Initiative
   Phone: 912-430-4346
   www2.State.ga.us/Departments/DHR/CSE/father.htm

   Frances Barry, Director

   The Fatherhood Initiative, created in 1997 by DHR's Child Support
   Enforcement office, uses State TANF and title XX funding to work with
   non-custodial parents who have a case with CSE and are unable or
   unwilling to pay their child support. The program offers: job
   counseling and placement assistance; placement into GED programs if
   needed; vocational training; classes on life-coping skills; and classes
   to strengthen parenting skills. CSE has entered into contracts with the
   Department of Technical and Adult Education to provide the range of
   services noncustodial parents need to get a job or move up the career
   ladder. Both TANF and Tittle XX-Social Services Block Grant funds are
   being used for this initiative.

    Mississippi

   Access and Visitation. Mississippi works with parents at Head Start
   centers and child welfare offices in an effort to help them develop
   parenting plans via mediation services. In addition, Mississippi also
   makes available supervised visitation services and information on the
   consequences of divorce as it affects children. Contact Pat Oluade at
   (601) 359-4873.

   TANF. Mississippi has proposed using TANF funds for new initiatives for
   the hard-to-serve population. In FY 2000, $1.9 million was earmarked
   for Fatherhood Initiatives. The goal is to increase the involvement of
   fathers in the lives of their children and to provide supportive
   services to help fathers become more self-sufficient.

    North Carolina

   TANF. North Carolina is allowing counties to submit proposals to run
   their own fatherhood programs with TANF funds.

    South Carolina

   Sisters of Charity Foundation of South Carolina Fatherhood Initiative
   Phone: 803-254-0230
   www.sistersofcharitysc.com

   Patricia Littlejohn, Program Officer

   The Sisters of Charity Foundation provides grant funds, technical
   assistance and other resources for community and faith-based groups,
   organizations and other non-profits whose efforts address the
   fundamental causes of poverty in South Carolina. The Foundation has
   embarked on a six-year state wide Fatherhood Initiative to strengthen
   the role of fathers and fragile families in the state. They have
   information and resources available to the community on the importance
   of fathers in families; the impact of fatherlessness; and other
   fatherhood programs.

   Access and Visitation. South Carolina's access and visitation
   initiative is referred to as the VIP Program (visitation, involvement,
   and parenting). One component of the VIP Program includes pilot
   programs in both urban and rural counties. This is in addition to
   on-going Statewide access and visitation initiatives. The primary
   services provided to the two counties include the development of a
   curriculum (Caring For Our Child) and the establishment of workshops
   for custodial and noncustodial parents as a way of assisting parents in
   the development of parenting plans and skills in parenting
   partnerships. Contact Marvin Lare at (803) 898-7657.

   TANF. South Carolina uses TANF funds for three programs that deal with
   parenting and pregnancy prevention for the couple, not specifically
   fatherhood. The Teen Companion Program is for youth who have never
   parented. The specific goals are to prevent pregnancies, reduce the
   youth dropout rate and increase options for self-sufficiency. The Youth
   Parent Program is for youth receiving FI benefits who are pregnant or
   parenting. The specific goals of this component are to reduce
   subsequent pregnancies, increase the number of students who return to
   school, increase options for self-sufficiency, reduce the need for
   Child Protective Services, and reduce low birth weight and prenatal
   defects. The Country Grants Fund for Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention
   Initiatives (APP) uses TANF funds to assist non-Medicaid or FI youth
   who have never parented. The program supports local efforts to prevent
   early sexual activity and to reduce the rate of adolescent pregnancy in
   each county. Initiatives emphasize sexual abstinence and male
   responsibility.

    Tennessee

   Access and Visitation. Tennessee invested its access and visitation
   funds in pilot projects in six judical districts. The purposes of these
   six pilots were to test the feasibility of requiring divorcing parents
   of minors to attend at least four hours of parent education; to mediate
   or negotiate a parenting plan that includes child visitation specifics;
   and to attempt to mediate any post-divorce disputes. Based on the
   successful results of these pilot projects, this requirement has become
   State law effective January 2001. Contact David Gilliam at (615)
   313-4880.

   TANF. Tennessee has been using TANF funds for its Fatherhood pilot
   project in Davidson County (Nashville) since implementation of its
   waiver/TANF plan in 1996.

Region 5

   (Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, and Wisconsin)

   Joyce A. Thomas
   Mid-West Regional Hub Director for Regional Affairs, Region 5
   233 North Michigan Ave, Suite 400
   Chicago, IL 60601
   Phone: 312-353-4237
   Fax: 312-353-2204

   Geneva Bishop
   Program Specialist
   Administration for Children and Families/Head Start
   233 North Michigan Avenue, Suite 400
   Chicago, IL 60601
   Phone: 312-353-8416
   Fax: 312-353-2204

   Janice Ely, RPC
   Regional Health Administrator
   233 North Michigan Avenue, Suite 1300
   Chicago, IL 60601
   Phone: 312-886-3864
   Fax: 312-353-7800

  HUB Activities

   The two regions that make up the ACF Midwest Hub have joined together
   in a Hub activity to develop a Hub Fatherhood Initiative plan. Plan
   development is currently in process. Ultimately, we hope to have
   Fatherhood concerns become a natural, ongoing element within our
   programs and partnerships. The program units in each of our two regions
   will be meeting individually to discuss what they can do to ensure
   Fatherhood concerns are included in their programs. Subsequent to those
   meetings, the program units from each region will meet on a Hub-wide
   basis to share their discussions and develop plans on how they can
   proceed.

   On March 1 there was a Hub meeting (including Federal and other
   partners) at which three of our Head Start grantees reported on their
   implementation of the Father Friendliness Organizational
   Self-assessment and Planning Tool. The tool is a mechanism by which we
   can bring the consideration of Fatherhood issues to our grantees and
   partners and expect it will be an important part of our plans. The
   Father Friendliness Organizational Self-assessment and Planning Tool
   referred to below can be found on the National Head Start Association's
   web site at http://www.nhsa.org/fatherhood

   Additional activities include:
     * Developing a Hub Fatherhood brochure for distribution at
       conferences, meetings and the like.
     * Planning on updating and expanding our Region V inventory of
       Fatherhood programs to include the entire Hub.
     * Planning a conference call for the newly funded Early Head Start
       Fatherhood Project grantees in Region V. The call would include the
       affected State/local Child Support Enforcement agencies and would
       provide an opportunity to share and learn about this new effort.

  State Activity

    Illinois

   Illinois Fatherhood Initiative
   Phone: 800-996-DADS
   www.4fathers.com

   David Hirsch, President

   The Illinois Fatherhood Initiative was the country's first statewide
   nonprofit, volunteer organization promoting father involvement in the
   lives of children. The initiative's activities include the publication
   of the "Illinois Fathers Resource Guide," a yearly calendar, and a
   children's essay contest about fathers.

   Access and Visitation. Illinois provides mediation, counseling, parent
   education, and the development of parenting plans as one of many
   services related to child access and visitation. This is accomplished
   in conjunction with one county where there is a responsible
   fatherhood/fragile family project designed to assist low-income, unwed
   fathers in securing full-time employment and in becoming actively
   involved in their children's lives. Contact Joseph Mason at (312)
   793-0193.

   The Father Connection Conference. Voices for Illinois Children, the
   Illinois Fatherhood Initiative, and the Erikson Institute are
   cosponsoring The Father Connection Conference in Springfield, Illinois
   on April 10. (not an ACF event, but will include a workshop on Head
   Start/Child Care/Child Support Collaboration)

    Indiana

   (State of) Indiana Fathers and Families
   Phone: 317-706-2641
   www.State.in.us/fathers

   The Indiana Family and Social Services Administration (FSSA) Division
   of Family and Children, has initiated Indiana Fathers & Families to
   support community-based efforts to help promote and restore a better
   quality of life for fathers and their families. Activities include:
   project funding; dissemination of information on Indiana Fathers &
   Families, technical assistance opportunities, and other information
   that fosters the effective delivery of services focused on restoring
   fatherhood and renewing families; development of a statewide Indiana
   Fathers & Families Work Group; and development of partnerships between
   State and local government bodies, non-government organizations,
   businesses, local planning bodies, and individuals involved in
   promoting and restoring fatherhood in Indiana.

   Availability of state grants. The State of Indiana on March 1 announced
   the availability of $1.45 million through its Indiana Fathers and
   Families initiative for services aimed at strengthening the emotional
   and financial ties between fathers and their children
   (www.in.gov/fssa/fathers).

   TANF. Indiana is using TANF funds for administrative costs associated
   with outreach to fathers, and to support community based efforts which
   promote and restore fatherhood. TANF funds are also used to fund
   projects which establish or expand effective fatherhood involvement
   Stategies that serve to promote fathers' emotional and financial
   involvement in their children's lives.

    Michigan

   TANF. Michigan provides employment services to noncustodial parents who
   are employed or underemployed in order to enable them to meet their
   responsibilities to support their children.

    Minnesota

   TANF. Minnesota is using TANF funds to expand their Parent's Fair Share
   (PFS) programs Statewide.

    Ohio

   TANF. Ohio is allowing counties to submit proposals to run their own
   fatherhood programs with TANF funds.

    Wisconsin

   (State of) Wisconsin Fatherhood Initiative
   Phone: 608-266-1212
   www.dwd.State.wi.us/wifatherhood

   The Wisconsin Fatherhood Initiative began when Governor Tommy Thompson
   signed an Executive Order in August of 1998. This EO required State
   agencies to examine their policies and make them more father-friendly.
   The Initiative has also sponsored a statewide fatherhood summit,
   conducted a public awareness campaign that included a special day at
   Milwaukee Brewers stadium, and has funded 35 projects around the State
   for local communites to develop fatherhood activities. The Wisconsin
   Fatherhood Initiative is working with the Wisconsin Resource Center on
   Fragile Families and the National Fatherhood Initiative to conduct
   fatherhood forums in communities throughout the State.

Region 6

   (Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas)

   Julia Lothrop
   Regional Affairs Specialist
   Department of Health and Human Services
   1301 Young Street, Suite 1124
   Dallas, TX 75202
   Phone: 214-767-3525
   Fax: 214-767-3617

   Ford Blunt
   Health Financing Administration
   Department of Health and Human Services
   1301 Young Street, Suite 714
   Dallas, TX 75202
   Phone: 214-767-6279
   Fax: 214-767-6400

   Tomasia Pinter
   Administration for Children and Families
   Department of Health and Human Services
   1301 Young Street, Suite 914
   Dallas, TX 75202
   Phone: 214-767-2972
   Fax: 214-767-8890

   Evelyn Glass
   Office of Family Planning
   Department of Health and Human Services
   1301 Young Street, Suite 766
   Dallas, TX 75202
   Phone: 214-767-3088
   Fax: 214-767-3425

  HUB Activities

   The Administration for Children and Families (ACF) (Regions IV and VI)
   with support from the Welfare Peer Technical Assistance Network, held a
   workshop on non-custodial parents on January 18 and 19, 2001, in
   Tallahassee, Florida. Workshop participants included individuals
   representing the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and the
   Office of Child Support Enforcement (OCSE) from the states of
   Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, Tennessee and Florida.

   The purpose of the workshop, Addressing the Needs of Non-Custodial
   Parents in TANF Families, was to build a common language and
   understanding of the issues surrounding welfare reform and
   non-custodial parents. In particular, promoting inter-agency
   collaborative strategies that effectively engage non-custodial
   parents-financially and emotionally-with their children. The workshop
   addressed the following issues:
     * Welfare Reform and the role for/impact of non-custodial parents
     * Effective strategies to engage non-custodial parents
     * Issues pertaining to incarcerated fathers
     * Financing fatherhood programs
     * Collaboration between TANF and OCSE
     * Engaging legislators in policy discussion and development

   It is estimated that one-third of the children in the United States
   live in a household headed by a single parent. Many of these children
   do not have a positive relationship with their fathers. Recent studies
   suggest that poverty and the lack of strong bonds with a responsible
   father is associated with negative child outcomes, such as high school
   dropout rates, increased risk of juvenile delinquency and substance
   abuse, and higher rates of teenage pregnancy. In recent years,
   practitioners and researchers have become aware of the barriers to
   responsible fatherhood, and several programs have been developed to
   address the needs of low-income non-custodial parents. As fathers are
   able to meet their child support payments, they are also more likely to
   become emotionally connected to their children, thus reducing the risks
   of negative outcomes among our youngest generations.

   Central to effective programs addressing the complex needs of
   non-custodial parents and their children is the collaboration of TANF
   and OCSE agencies. The workshop emphasized funding opportunities
   available to agencies to develop services and programs for
   non-custodial parents.

   The full report on the workshop "Addressing the Needs of Non-Custodial
   Parents in TANF Families" has been posted on the Welfare Peer Technical
   Assistance Network under the TA Reports section. You can find it under
   "What's New" and under "TA Events" (Two ways to get there from the TA
   events page are via "chronological list" and via "hard to serve/multi
   barriers." The direct address for the report is:
   http://www.calib.com/peerta/whatsnew/pdf/ncpworkshop.pdf

   There have been several key events held in the five state area to focus
   attention on the issues of fatherhood and the potential for positive
   impact on American families The Regional Hub Director delivered special
   remarks at the first annual Region VI Head Start Association Fatherhood
   Conference in Texas on March 1-4, 2001. The conference, attended by
   representatives of several ACF programs, was the first-ever region-wide
   activity for males who are fathers, grandfathers, uncles or interested
   human beings who love and care for children. The 3^rd Annual Male
   Advocacy Network Conference, "Men in the New Millennium" held in
   Albuquerque, New Mexico afforded the opportunity for networking with
   individuals from across the country. The Regional Hub Director provided
   special remarks and emphasized the importance of the fatherhood issue
   across all ACF programs. The Regional Hub Director and the program
   specialist for Fatherhood attended and participated in the Texas
   Fragile Families Peer Learning College hosted by the Texas Attorney
   General's Office to increase information exchange among Child Support
   workers to assist young fathers with education and job training
   resources. ACF West Central Hub Director for Community Programs
   participated in the "Mi Hogar y Mi Familia" Conference held at Coastal
   Bend College (Bee County College) in Alice, Texas to specifically
   address the issue of fatherhood in the Hispanic community.

  State Activities

    Louisiana

   The IV-D Program is targeting fathers in prison through a model
   pre-lease program at a local state prison.

    New Mexico

   The IV-D program has conducted presentations to alternative high
   schools and fathers support groups to advise them of their rights and
   responsibilities as a parent and the importance of establishing
   paternity.

    Oklahoma

   In an effort to increase public awareness on Fatherhood issues and to
   educate teens on parental responsibility, the Oklahoma Child Support
   Enforcement Division partnered with the Maternal and Child Health
   Service, State Health Department to facilitate training to the "Dads
   Make a Difference" program.

    Texas

   (State of) Texas Fatherhood Initiative
   Phone: 512-453-5056
   Fax: 512-453-5063
   E-mail: tfi2000@austin.rr.com
   www.fatherhood.org/tx.htm

   Christopher A. Brown, Director

   The Texas Fatherhood Initiative seeks to improve the health and
   well-being of children by reducing father absence and promoting
   responsible fatherhood. The TFI defines father absence as a lack of
   physical, emotional, or spiritual connection between fathers and their
   children. The primary message of the TFI is that fathers play a unique
   and irreplaceable role in children's development. TFI conducts the
   following activities: 1) coordinates a multi-media, public awareness
   and education campaign on the consequences of father absence and the
   need to promote responsible fatherhood; 2) organizes Community
   Fatherhood Forums across the state; and 3) operates the Texas
   Fatherhood Resource Center (TFRC), which provides individuals and
   community-based organizations with fatherhood-related resource
   materials, training, referrals, and technical assistance.

   (State of) Texas PAPA and POP Programs
   Phone: 512- 460-6124

   Ann Costilow, PAPA Program
   Phone: 512- 460-6317.

   Joan Hutchinson, POP Program

   Texas has launched two programs that reinforce the importance parenting
   and paternity establishment. The Texas hospital-based Paternity
   Opportunity Program (POP) represents a successful collaboration among
   hospitals, the Office of the Attorney General (the child support agency
   in Texas), and the Bureau of Vital Statistics (BVS) to give fathers an
   opportunity to voluntarily acknowledge paternity. Hospital birth
   registrars now distribute written material on paternity to unwed
   parents, offering them an opportunity to sign the paternity
   acknowledgment form. Materials have been developed, the acknowledgment
   of paternity form has been made, and training has been provided to
   personnel at birthing hospitals and birthing centers across the State.
   PAPA, which stands for Paternity/Parenthood Program, is a curriculum
   that teaches teenagers the legal rights and financial responsibilities
   that come with parenthood. PAPA's objective is to make teenagers aware
   that parenthood is a commitment that will last at least 18 years. The
   curriculum includes a video, written lesson plans and transparencies.
   The curriculum has been distributed to every middle school and high
   school in the State and is currently being revised to focus more on
   non-financial fatherhood issues such as good parenting and the
   developmental need of children. Both PAPA and POP are programs of the
   Texas Attorney General's Office of Child Support Enforcement.

   Texas Fragile Family Initiative
   Phone: 512-320-0228 ext. 125
   http://texasfragilefamilies.org

   Michael Hayes, Project Director

   The Texas Fragile Families Initiative (TFF) is an innovative state-wide
   project with 12 sites developed through the partnership of the Hogg
   Foundation for Mental Health and the Center for Public Policy
   Priorities. The Initiative is designed to facilitate the development of
   community-based services for young, low-income, fathers as they support
   the emotional, physical, and financial needs of their children. To this
   end, TFF is engaged in multiple layers of activities: capacity-building
   to local programs and their staff, training and technical assistance to
   State agencies, public policy education, recruitment of funding
   partners within both private foundations and public agencies, and
   community awareness building.

Region 7

   (Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska)

   Dan Houlahan
   Administration for Children and Families
   Department of Health and Human Services
   601 East 12th Street, Rm 276
   Kansas City, MO 64106
   Phone: 816-426-3981 x195
   Fax: 816-426-2888

   G. Carolyn Sherlank
   Administration for Children and Families
   Head Start and Youth Program Specialist
   Department of Health and Human Services
   601 East 12th Street, Rm. 276
   Kansas City, MO 64106
   Phone: 816-426-3981 ext. 142
   Fax: 816-426-2888

  State Activities

   On its website, Region 7 maintains information about male involvement
   activities in its states and includes links to some websites that might
   be helpful in program development. [Note that most of these links are
   to sites not maintained by HHS.] The site is at:
   http://www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/region7/malegate.htm

    Iowa

   TANF. Iowa is using TANF funds for its Parental Obligation Program.
   This program is intended to help parents, especially fathers living
   apart from their children, to develop and maintain relationships with
   their children and meet their full range of parental responsibilities.
   In collaboration with existing community resources, an array of
   services are provided which include: family counseling, legal services,
   mediation, job training, substance abuse treatment, health maintenance,
   and personal mentoring.

   TANF. Missouri's PFS program is based on the idea that both parents are
   responsible for supporting their children, both emotionally and
   financially. To participate in the program, an individual must: live in
   the State, be a noncustodial parent, be unemployed or underemployed,
   and be at least 18 years old. PFS offers a wide range of
   fatherhood-related services including parenting education, peer
   support, and substance abuse intervention. Missouri has a two-year
   allocation of $10 million.

Region 8

   (Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming)

   Paul Denham
   Acting Regional Director
   1961 Stout Street, Rm 1076
   Denver, CO 80494
   Phone: 303-844-3372
   Fax: 303-844-4545

   Michelle McGowan
   Regional Affairs Specialist
   1961 Stout Street, Rm 1076
   Denver, CO 80294
   Phone: 303-844-3372
   Fax: 303-844-4545

Region 9

   (Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, Guam, Trust Territory of Pacific
   Islands, and American Samoa)

   Ronald Banks
   Regional Health Administrator
   Federal Office Building
   50 United Nations Plaza
   San Francisco, CA 94012
   Phone: 415-556-5810
   Fax: 415-437-8004

  Regional Collaborations

   CHOICES Program. Region IX is involved with the Choosing Healthy
   Options If Considering Engaging in Sex (CHOICES) Program targeting high
   risk adolescent and post-adolescent males, ages 12-24, in West Oakland
   and North Richmond at risk for unplanned pregnancies and sexually
   transmitted diseases. CHOICES is a male focused information and
   education program aimed at promoting family planning, responsible
   fatherhood, and goal-oriented lifestyles. CHOICES provides
   opportunities for young males to receive health education and to
   interact with older peers who serve as role models. The program is
   designed to help participants learn how to set life goals, acquire an
   education, obtain a good job, and improve life skills. The Region IX
   Office of Family Planning is in the first year of its three-year
   commitment to fund the program through the Alameda County Department of
   Health.

   San Mateo County Dads Count Program. San Mateo County has a new
   initiative to increase awareness about the value of fathers and the
   role they play in their children's lives. The county will hold its
   second annual Dads Count event on April 4, 2001, to bring more
   attention to the issue of fatherhood. The event is sponsored by the
   government, legal and business communities in San Mateo County, in
   conjunction with the Fatherhood Collaborative of San Mateo County, a
   group consisting of organizations and individuals dedicated to
   supporting fathers in caring for their families and children. The HHS
   Regional Director's Office attended the April 4th event. The keynote
   speaker will be Bill Walsh, San Francisco 49er General Manager and
   former coach.

   Bay Area Partners for Fragile Families. Bay Area Partners for Fragile
   Families, a project of the National Center for Strategic Nonprofit
   Planning and Community Leadership (NPCL) convened a workshop entitled
   Working with Young Fathers: Building Skills for Practitioners. This
   workshop was held on March 26-28, 2001, at the Allen Temple Baptist
   Church in Oakland. The Regional Office has worked closely with NPCL on
   many past fatherhood activities.

  State Activities

    Arizona

   Access and Visitation. Arizona provides pilot grants to a number of
   counties. Maricopa County, for example, provides a wide range of access
   and visitation services for cases in the courts following or during
   divorce or paternity establishment including mediation, negotiation of
   compliance with court-ordered access, and visitation enforcement
   through a parental conflict resolution class. Drug testing, supervised
   visitation, and related services are also provided. Contact Kat Cooper
   at (602) 506-5714.

   TANF. Arizona funds its Statewide fatherhood initiative with TANF funds
   through contracts with local organizations to provide services. The
   State also funds a young fathers mentoring program to assist fathers
   with parenting skills, employment, and visitation arrangements.

    California

   California State Faith-Based Initiative On February 26, 2001, Governor
   Gray Davis announced that a total of $5 million was awarded to 20
   faith-based organizations throughout California. One of the awardees,
   the CHAMPIONs Recovery Alternative Programs, Inc. of King County, will
   use the grant to provide intensive substance abuse education and
   counseling, job-readiness training, placement, and long-term follow-up
   services to adolescent and adult (ages 18-25) noncustodial parents.

   California State Noncustodial Parent Employment and Training
   Demonstration Projects. The California Department of Social Services is
   funding these demonstration projects in the seven counties of Contra
   Costa, Los Angeles, Napa, San Benito, San Francisco, Santa Barbara and
   Santa Clara. The goals of the project are:
     * Increasing employment and earnings of unemployed and underemployed
       noncustodial parents (NCPs) to a level to be able to support
       themselves and their children;
     * Reduce the need for CalWORKS benefits to children of NCPs by
       increasing the amount and consistency of child support collections;
       and
     * Assist NCPs in assuming a larger role in their children's lives by
       providing not only financial, but also emotional support as well.

   State funding is through June 30, 2001, but all the counties will have
   an opportunity to apply for additional funding through the Fathers,
   Families, and Communities Demonstration Projects (FFCDP). FFCDP is
   expected to begin July 1, 2001, and the state will issue the RFP
   shortly.

   Access and Visitation. California provides a regional approach
   featuring parental education during the time of family disruption in an
   effort to increase parenting skills as a means for minimizing conflict
   and encouraging the development of parenting plans. Group counseling is
   provided to both parents and children on how to solve parenting
   problems. Other services, such as supervised visitation and neutral
   drop-off and child exchange services are provided to families during
   the litigation of a divorce or custody dispute. Contact Timothy Gemelli
   at (415) 865-7564.

   TANF. California is funding a seven county program targeted at fathers,
   based on proposals the counties had submitted to the State. Program
   participation is voluntary in some counties and mandatory in others.
   Sites offer a range of services around employment, including support
   services, (e.g., substance abuse), as well as courses in parenting
   skills, conflict management, relationship building and custody and
   visitation.

Region 10

   (Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington)

   Elizabeth G. Healy
   Executive Officer
   Department of Health and Human Services
   2201 6th Avenue, RX-01
   Seattle, WA 98121
   Phone: 206-615-2013
   Fax: 206-615-2087

   Richard Lyons, M.D.
   Regional Health Administrator, OPHS
   2201 6th Avenue, Suite 20
   Seattle, WA 98121
   Phone: 206-615-2469
   Fax: 206-615-2481

   Vince Herberholt
   Associate Regional Administrator
   Administration for Children and Families
   2201 6th Avenue, Suite 600
   Seattle, WA 98121
   Phone: 206-615-3662
   Fax: 206-615-2574

    Hispanic Outreach Forum,
    Portland, Oregon on August 9.

   The Seattle Regional Office and the Oregon Child Support Program are
   sponsoring an Hispanic Outreach Forum, August 9, 2001 from 8:30 am to
   5:00 p.m. at the Holiday Inn, Portland Airport, 8439 NE Columbia.,
   Portland, Oregon.

   This forum has two purposes:
    1. For the Hispanic Community to learn more about the child support
       program.
    2. For the Child Support Program leadership to hear from the Hispanic
       Community on how well they are doing in providing customer service.

   Featured speakers include Frank Fuentes, Acting Commissioner, of the
   Federal Office of Child Support Enforcement and Jerry Tello, Director
   of the National Latino Fatherhood and Family Institute (invited).
   Attendance is limited to 150 people. For more information call
   1-503-945-6071.

  State Activities

    Idaho

   Access and Visitation. Idaho provides a screening of divorced and unwed
   parents as a means of determining appropriate access and visitation
   services that might be needed. Idaho also sponsors mandated parent
   education for divorced and unwed cases as well as mediation in order to
   arrive at mutually agreed upon parenting plans. Contact Anna Sever at
   (208) 334-5700.

    Washington

   Washington State Fathers Network and National Fathers Network
   Phone: 425-747-4004
   www.fathersnetwork.org

   James May, Director

   The Washington State/National Fathers Network advocates for men as
   crucially important participants in the lives of their families and
   children. The Network provides support and resources to fathers and
   families of children with developmental disabilities and chronic
   illness, and to the professionals who serve them. For example, the
   Network has training materials for health providers about how to work
   with men of color who are caring for their special needs children.

   The Washington State Fathers Network presents:

   "WORKING TOGETHER VI"
   A Statewide Regional Conference for Fathers of Children with Special
   Needs

   Saturday, June 2, 2001 -- 8:30 AM to 5:00 PM
   Seattle Central Community College - Seattle, WA
   Tuition: $40.00 (full/partial scholarships available.)
   http://www.fathersnetwork.org/web/news/main/confer.html
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  Where to?

                  [ HHS Fatherhood Initiative Home Page ]

                         [ Whats New | Overview |
              Improving Opportunities for Low-Income Fathers |
         Caring for Young Children | Fathers & Childrens Health |
                Toolkit for Fatherhood | Around the Regions |
     Federal Interagency Forum on Child & Family Statistics | Research |
                            Program Evaluations ]

                     [ ASPE Home Page | HHS Home Page ]

                         Last updated July 27, 2001
