http://www.busdev.wa.gov/welcome/busRetExpan.asp



   BUSINESS LEADERS TESTIMONIES MEET OUR GOVERNOR CONTACT US OUR PARTNERS
   WEB SITE STRUCTURE MEET OUR TEAM
   Washington State Community Trade and Economic Development - Business
   Development
   Return to the WA State CTED Business Development Home Page
   Return to the WA State CTED Business Development Home Page
   [img_template_line.gif] Contact Us
   Return to the WA State CTED Business Development Home Page
   Business Development [img_template_page_title.gif]
   [img_template_curve_tail.gif]
   [img_template_r05_c1.gif]

   Go to Prinatable Page  Go to Printable Page
   • Business Retention
     & Expansion
   • Economic Overview
   • Education
   • Industry Associations
   • International Trade
   • Job Skills Training
   • Quality of Life
   • Tax / Incentives
   • Transportation
   • Workforce
   • How to use Washington
     State Resources
   • WHAT'S NEW

   Business Retention & Expansion

      Sixty to eighty percent of all new jobs are created by existing
      businesses. Local companies are valuable resources that communities
      cannot afford to ignore or lose. The jobs they generate further
      employment gains and create new businesses and tax revenues to boost
      local economies.

   Services

      The Business Retention and Expansion program works with manufacturing
      and processing firms on retention and local expansion issues. (For
      out-of-area expansion, see OTED Business Development.) OTED staff, in
      conjunction with local Economic Development Council (EDC) staff,
      identify threatened or expanding manufacturing companies and provide
      problem-solving and technical assistance to these firms. The program
      also focuses on early warning, coordination of services and resources,
      assessment of industry issues and capacity building for EDC staff, and
      assist rural counties with local business visitation programs.

   Accomplishments

      The Business Retention and Expansion Program has helped retain and
      expand 262 manufacturing/processing firms resulting in the creation or
      retention of over 20,282 jobs and $62 million in state tax revenue in
      its ten years. For every state dollar spent, the program generated an
      estimated $19 in state taxes.
      For further information contact:
        * Ginger Rich, (206) 956-3162 or gingerr@cted.wa.gov.

   Helpful Links:

        * Washington Coalition Brownfields Cleanup Revolving Loan Fund to
          encourage cleanup and redevelopment of commercial or industrial
          brownfield properties.

      More LINKS

   Alternative to Layoffs

   Shared Work Program

      Allows an employer to reduce employment hours instead of total layoff
      for a portion of the employees by granting those workers unemployment
      insurance payments proportionate to the number of reduced hours.
      Contact Pat Novarra at 1-800-752-2500

   Assistance with Tax Problems

      Assists businesses experiencing temporary cash flow problems with
      payment plans.
      L & I - Call your local L & I Office Revenue - Call 1-800-647-7706
      Unemployment Insurance - Call Status Accounts at (360) 902-9360

   Community Assistance

      Community Economic Assistance Center
      Helps communities develop community economic development strategies and
      stabilization directions, and gain access to technical and financial
      resources to accomplish priority goals.
      Contact Dara Fredericksen at (360) 725-4053

   Finance Assistance

      Community Development Finance Program (CDF)
      Provides technical assistance and loan packaging assistance designed to
      access long-term financing to create or retain jobs, using existing
      state and federal programs.
      Contact Jim Keogh at (360) 725-4041
      Community Economic Revitalization Board (CERB)
      Provides financing for construction of public facilities that support
      private-sector development and result in increased employment
      opportunities and private investment.
      Contact Kate Rothschild at (360) 725-4058

   Locating New Markets

      Procurement Technical Assistance Center
      Assist businesses in marketing and selling to government.
      Contact Lisa Epstein (425) 743-4567

   Staff Training/Retraining

      Dislocated Workers Program and Trade Act Assistance (TAA)
      Administers programs that provide reemployment services, including
      necessary retraining to workers who have lost their jobs due to
      technological displacement, foreign competition, plant closure or other
      structural changes in the economy.
      Contact Kathy DiJulio at (360) 438-3275
      Job Skills Program (JSP)
      Provides grants to develop and deliver customized training for
      employees of companies that are new or expanding, and to upgrade or
      retrain current employees. Develops industry-education partnerships to
      address immediate and long-term training needs of companies. The
      private sector participant must equally match the JSP grant with cash
      or in-kind contributions.
      Contact Mike Porter (360) 753-3650

   Technical Assistance

      OTED Business Assistance
      Offers technical assistance, information and referrals to state and
      local resources.

                                Call 1-800-237-1233

      Washington State Business Resource Directory
      Department of Ecology
      Provides technical assistance on a variety of environmental issues,
      including storm water, air regulations, and waste management.
      Contact Permit Assistance Center at (360) 407-7037 or 1-800-917-0043.
      Washington Manufacturing Services
      WMS is a manufacturing extension program to assist small and medium
      manufacturing companies improve their competitiveness. WMS has project
      managers strategically located in offices across the state. Three
      project managers focus on specific industry areas statewide.
      Contact George Sutherland at 425-438-1146.

   Northwest Trade Adjustment Assistance Center

      Manufacturing companies, certified as affected by foreign competition,
      can receive up to 50 percent of the costs for consultation studies
      (includes ISO 9000 projects).
   Contact Robert Miller at (206) 622-2730
   Access Washington - Washington State Government Information Services
   [img_template_r07_c2.gif]

   Access Washington - Washington State Government Information Services
   [img_template_r7_c05.gif]
   HOME     BUSINESS LEADER TESTIMONIALS     MEET OUR GOVERNOR
   CONTACT US     OUR PARTNERS     WEB SITE STRUCTURE     MEET OUR TEAM

   SEARCH     OTED HOME PAGE     TEXT VERSION     ACCESS WASHINGTON
   [img_template_r8_c01.gif]
   • SEARCH • • OTED HOME PAGE • • TEXT VERSION •
