http://www.policyworks.gov/org/main/mt/homepage/mtt/perdiem/traveladvisory-5.htm

   [gsa_logo.gif]

                                    [usgsa.gif]
                              [newflagmain.gif]

    Travel Advisory Number 5 - December 31, 2001

    Description

   On December 28, 2001, the President signed into law S. 1438, National
   Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002. Section 1116 of this
   law authorizes Federal employees to retain promotional items, including
   frequent flyer miles, earned on official travel. This travel advisory
   provides interim details regarding this new authority.

      Guidelines for Official Federal TravelersUsing Frequent Traveler
                                  Benefits

   Certain provisions of the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR) and the
   Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR) require that promotional
   benefits, including frequent flyer miles, earned on official travel are
   considered the property of the Government and may only be used for
   official travel. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
   2002, signed by President Bush on December 28, 2001, now allows federal
   employees to retain for personal use promotional items received
   incident to official travel. This travel advisory provides Questions
   and Answers that will help the federal traveler become familiar with
   the new law and the new travel procedures which are being established
   as a result of this statutory change.

    1. Who should read this travel advisory?
        All federal travelers, authorizing officials and travel managers
        should read this advisory. This travel advisory provides guidance
        for federal travelers who earn promotional materials and frequent
             traveler benefits while on official Government travel.
    2. What is the new law?
       This travel advisory is based on enactment of the National Defense
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002. Section 1116 of this law
       specifically states that federal employees may retain for personal
        use promotional items, including frequent flyer miles, earned on
                                official travel.
    3. Are any other laws affected?
        Yes. This new law repeals Section 6008 of the Federal Acquisition
          Streamlining Act of 1994 (5 U.S.C. 5702 note; Public Law No.
            103-355), which had prohibited personal retention of such
                               promotional items.
    4. What regulation(s) do you need to know about?
        Certain provisions of the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR) (41 CFR
       301-53) and the Federal Property Management Regulations (FPMR) (41
        CFR 101-25) require that promotional benefits, including frequent
       flyer miles, earned on official travel are considered the property
        of the Government and may only be used for official travel. These
                  regulations are in the process of amendment.
    5. How is a frequent travel promotional benefits account established?
        It is the responsibility of each traveler to communicate directly
          with a service provider to establish his/her frequent travel
        promotional benefits account. Any associated costs are to be paid
              by the traveler, and are not a reimbursable expense.
    6. What may the traveler do with promotional benefits or material
       he/she receives from a travel service provider?
       Any promotional benefits or material received from a travel service
         provider in connection with official travel may be retained for
       personal use, if such items are obtained under the same conditions
       as those offered to the general public at no additional cost to the
         Government. This includes all benefits earned, including those
        earned before enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act
                              for Fiscal Year 2002.
    7. Under what circumstances may the traveler use frequent travel
       benefits to upgrade his/her transportation class of service when on
       official travel?
        It is the policy of the Government that employees generally must
       travel by coach class accommodations. However, you may upgrade your
       transportation class of service at your own expense. Therefore, as
        frequent traveler benefits may now be retained for your personal
       use, you may use any frequent traveler benefits you have earned to
            upgrade your transportation class to premium service. The
        regulations governing upgrades to premium airline accommodations
        continue to be found at FTR §§ 301-10.123 and 301-10.124. Your
         agency cannot pay for any upgrades, unless you meet one of the
                        exceptions in these regulations.
    8. When will the FTR and FPMR changes be effective?
       The amendatory language to the FTR and FPMR is not in effect until
          a final rule(s) is published in the Federal Register (FR). We
       anticipate that publication will take place in 30-60 days. You may,
           however, use your frequent traveler benefits immediately in
                       accordance with paragraph 9, below.
    9. What authority allows immediate use of promotional benefits earned
       while on official travel?
        GSAs Office of Governmentwide Policy has issued a governmentwide
         waiver of the provisions of the FTR and FPMR that require that
        promotional items received incident to official travel, including
        frequent flyer miles, before, on or after the date of the waiver
        may be retained by federal employees for their personal use. The
         waiver remains in effect until a permanent amendment(s) to the
              provisions referenced herein is published in the FR.
   10. Who should a federal traveler call if he/she is confused and does
       not know what to do?
       He/she should contact the supervisor or travel approving official.
   11. Are frequent traveler benefits taxable?
          The Internal Revenue Service has indicated to GSA that these
       benefits may be taxable. GSA will provide additional information as
                           we receive it from the IRS.

     If you have additional questions, please contact your supervisor or
   your agencys travel or financial policy manager. Jim Harte, OGPs Travel
    Policy Team Leader at 202-501-0483, is also available to assist you.

                        Last updated January 3, 2002
