http://www.fca.gov/FCA-Public%20Meetings.htm

   Skip to Main Content      Pictures of Farm Scene

   FCA Homepage About FCA News and Events FCA's Publications Legal
   Information Farm Credit System Institutions

                                   graphic
                             Search FCA homepage

                                News & Events

   graphic of a red button Events
                           — Board Meetings
                           — Public Meetings
                           — Association Meetings


                             FCA Public Meeting
                               August 3, 2001
                              Des Moines, Iowa
            Improving Access to Agricultural and Rural Financing

   Available copies of testimony presented at FCA's public meeting are
   provided here in PDF format. Additional testimony will be posted as it
   becomes available.

   Cecil Gibson on behalf of National Livestock Credit Corporation.

   Chris Petersen on behalf of the National Farmers Union.

   Wilfred N. Cooper, Sr., Chairman and CEO of WNC & Associates, Inc.,
   Costa Mesa, Calif.

   Cecil H. Sheperson, President and CEO, AgPreference, ACA, Altus, Okla.

   William R. Clayton, Senior Vice President, AgFirst Farm Credit Bank,
   Columbia, S.C.

   Kenneth E. Auer, President and CEO, The Farm Credit Council,
   Washington, D.C.

   Jeff Plagge, President, First National Bank, Waverly, Iowa, on behalf
   of the American Bankers Association.

   Gary Weirauch, President, Citizens State Bank of Loyal, Loyal, Wisc.,
   on behalf of the Independent Community Bankers Association of America.

   Bill Knox, CFO, Bank of Whitman, Colfax, Wash., on behalf of the
   Independent Community Bankers Association of America.


     Home | About FCA | News & Events | Publications | Legal Info | FCS
                                Institutions
                          Accessibility Information
      Please refer to our Privacy Policy for important information that
                  should be read before proceeding further.
   Some documents contained in this Web site are PDF files and require the
                                   use of
   the Adobe Portable Document Format 4.0 (PDF) viewer, available for free
                          from the Adobe Web site.
         Comments or Questions? Contact FCA Office of Congressional
        and Public Affairs (703) 883-4056 or e-mail info-line@fca.gov
                            Last Updated: 9/6/01
