http://eob.gsfc.nasa.gov/Newsroom/NewImages/images.php3

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                              News

     New Images

   Sulfur Dioxide Emissions from Congo Volcanoes

   Sulfur Dioxide Emissions from Congo Volcanoes Click here to view full
   image (409 kb)

   The Earth Probe Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer (TOMS) detected a
   sulfur dioxide cloud associated with the January 2002 eruption of
   Nyiragongo as it flew over the region at around 11 a.m. local time
   (0900 UTC) on January 17. The sensor detected no significant amounts of
   ash in the eruption cloud. At the time of the TOMS overpass the cloud
   extended up to roughly 200 km (124 miles) northwest of Nyiragongo and
   was still attached to the volcano. This observation is consistent with
   nearly coincident MODIS imagery which shows an opaque cloud of gas and
   steam in the same location. The TOMS measurements show that the amount
   of sulfur dioxide in the Nyiragongo’s plume range from about 10 to 30
   kilotons.

   Please note that TOMS mass retrievals are dependent on the altitude of
   the cloud and may be adjusted as more information becomes available.
   Since the cloud may still have been developing at the time of the TOMS
   overpass, the final sulfur dioxide burden may have been greater. Wind
   trajectory data (courtesy of Leslie Lait, SSAI) suggest that part of
   the cloud may have reached at least mid- to upper-tropospheric
   altitudes of up to 12 km (7 miles), but scientists suspect no
   significant stratospheric injection of sulfur dioxide as a result of
   this eruption since the gas was not visible over the Democratic
   Republic of the Congo region in subsequent TOMS data acquired on
   January 18.

   Production of sulfur dioxide without a significant ash cloud is
   commonly observed during effusive eruptions such as the Nyiragongo
   event. Although dense low-level ash may be produced during such
   eruptions, these particulates usually fall out fairly quickly and elude
   detection by satellite. The size of the January 17 Nyiragongo cloud and
   the estimated sulfur dioxide tonnage are fairly modest, and at least an
   order of magnitude smaller than values typically measured by TOMS
   during eruptions of nearby Nyamuragira during its frequent outbursts
   (e.g., on February 6, 2001). Sulfur dioxide column amounts (measured in
   Dobson Units) are much higher in the more extensive Nyamuragira cloud,
   which contained roughly 420 kilotons of sulfur dioxide. Although
   several factors could affect the size of the observed cloud in each
   case—such as the delay between the onset of the eruption and the TOMS
   overpass, and the volume of lava emitted and the lava composition—the
   TOMS data suggest that the Nyiragongo magma may have been largely
   degassed before eruption. One possible mechanism by which this could be
   achieved is the cyclic degassing of magma in the subaerial lava lakes
   that have been intermittently present in Nyiragongo’s summit crater
   over the past few decades.

   Images courtesy Simon Cairn, TOMS Volcanic Emissions Group, Joint
   Center for Earth Systems Technology, University of Maryland-Baltimore
   County

   Back to: Newsroom

   Also see
   Visible Earth

                                Latest Images
                              View Images Index

   Perspective View, Mount Shasta, California
     Perspective View, Mount Shasta, California

   Réunion Island Volcano Erupts
     Réunion Island Volcano Erupts

   Shrimp Farms and Mangroves, Gulf of Fonseca
     Shrimp Farms and Mangroves, Gulf of Fonseca


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
