http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Newsroom/NasaNews/2000/200009124019.html

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                             News

     Nasa News Stories Archive


   NASA Satellite Data Used Operationally to Help Combat Fires in the West

   Lynn Chandler
   Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Md.
   (Phone: 301/614-5562)

   David W. Tippets
   USDA Forest Service, Odgen, Ut.
   (Phone: 801/625-5434)

   September 12, 2000
   RELEASE NO: 00-111

   There was no Labor Day holiday for firefighters battling dozens of
   blazes that have consumed hundreds of thousands of acres across Montana
   and Idaho. But fire officials did get some assistance from an
   unexpected source as scientists from NASA, NOAA, the USDA Forest
   Service and the University of Virginia teamed up to provide them with
   new observations of the fires from NASA's Terra satellite. This marked
   the first time data from the recently-launched spacecraft were used
   operationally in a crisis situation.

   On Aug. 30 and 31, President Clinton declared parts of both Montana and
   Idaho disaster areas due to widespread wildfires. On Sept. 1,
   scientists from NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center (Greenbelt, Md.) and
   NOAA began providing Forest Service officials with daily images
   acquired over those states by Terra's Moderate-resolution Imaging
   Spectroradiometer (MODIS) instrument.

   According to Wei Min Hao, project leader of the Fire Sciences
   Laboratory for the Forest Service's Rocky Mountain Research Station,
   MODIS data helped firefighters pinpoint where the fires were burning,
   where there were still-smoldering burn scars, and where smoke from the
   blazes was spreading.

   "On days when there is heavy smoke, observers in reconnaissance planes
   are unable to see the fire through the smoke," says Hao. "So we must
   rely on thermal infrared sensors and satellite imagery. During this
   historic fire season there are so many fires over such a large area and
   we have such limited resources, without the satellite images we could
   not see the real extent of the fires and know where to allocate
   firefighting resources."

   According to Hao, satellite images from MODIS and NOAA's Advanced Very
   High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) provided a quick overview of where
   the fires were most active on the previous day. This information helped
   the firefighters plan each day's strategy and decide how to allocate
   resources for monitoring and if necessary battling the blazes.

   Terra Project Scientist Yoram Kaufman explains that the MODIS sensor
   observes the fire region in 36 different wavelengths of the spectrum,
   ranging from visible to thermal infrared light, so it has the capacity
   to see through the smoke in the atmosphere to detect hot flames on the
   surface. MODIS also has new channels that enable scientists to
   distinguish flaming fires from still-smoldering burn scars.

   "MODIS can detect smoke at a resolution four times greater than AVHRR
   (NOAA's heritage instrument for MODIS), and MODIS uses several spectral
   channels in the solar spectrum so it can see the smoke more clearly,"
   says Kaufman. "MODIS can also see burn scars at resolutions as high as
   250 meters."

   "Ultimately, this is good for the people at the fire fighting command
   center," adds Hao. "The MODIS data helps them monitor smoke dispersion,
   which is a critical issue for the health of those living in the area."

   According to Chris Justice, MODIS Land Discipline Group Leader and
   research professor at the University of Virginia, MODIS will also make
   important new contributions to monitoring fires on a global scale by
   helping scientists better gauge how much gas and aerosol particles they
   emit every year. In the U.S. alone, more than 6 million acres have
   burned this year, which is 2.5 times the annual average.

   Preliminary calculations by Stefania Korontzi (UVa), a member of the
   MODIS fire group, estimate that the fires this summer in Montana,
   Idaho, Nevada, and Utah have released approximately 76 teragrams (76
   million metric tons) of carbon dioxide. Annual estimates from the USFWS
   for the entire United States, averaged from 1988-96, range from 33 to
   189 teragrams (33 to 189 million metric tons) of carbon dioxide that
   are released by wildfires each year.

   "These preliminary calculations show that the emissions from these
   wildfires are significant," says Justice. "The MODIS fire group will be
   developing better estimates of emissions in the coming months, using
   MODIS data to provide estimates of the total area burned. The improved
   spatial resolution and spectral band selection of MODIS allows improved
   mapping of burn scars."

   One advantage Terra had in observing the fires is that it orbits over
   the area in the morning, Hao said. MODIS tends to get more shots of the
   fires than NOAA's AVHRR instrument, which flies over in the afternoon
   because there is typically less cloud cover in the morning. Using the
   two satellites in tandem gives firefighters the best possible chance of
   getting unobstructed views of the fires.

   "It is very exciting that new satellite technology, as manifest in the
   MODIS instrument on Terra, can be used not only to do new Earth system
   science, but it can also be used to help monitor wildfires, save lives
   and property, and monitor air quality," says Kaufman.

   Kaufman says this is the first time Terra data have been made available
   operationally. He says the MODIS Team, based at Goddard Space Flight
   Center, is making the data available on an experimental basis.

   "We are testing our ability to deliver the data operationally within 24
   hours of acquisition," he explains. "We hope to be able to deliver the
   data operationally in the future using MODIS' direct broadcast
   capabilities."

   Any agency or organization that has a proper receiving station can
   freely receive direct broadcast MODIS data every time the satellite
   flies overhead. Moreover, a copy of the MODIS sensor will also launch
   in December 2000 aboard Aqua, Terra's sister satellite. Once both
   sensors are in orbit, MODIS will see any given place on the Earth's
   surface as often as four times per day.

   For more information:

     NASA Demonstrates New Technology for Monitoring Fires from Space
     Global Fire Monitoring
     Terra Home Page
     MODIS Home Page

   More Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) Images of
   Fire:

     Smoke in the Bitterroot Mountains
     Fire Heat Signatures



   True Color and Fires
   This visible light/infrared composite image over Montana and Idaho was
   acquired by the Moderate-resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer on Aug.
   23. The image shows the locations of actively burning wildfires (red
   pixels) and the thick shroud of smoke they produced (grey-blue pixels).
   There were 57 wildfires burning across both states. A single MODIS
   image can be up to 2,330 kilometers wide, allowing fire scientists to
   monitor a much larger area than can be covered on the ground or by
   aircraft. Also, because MODIS has detectors that are sensitive to
   thermal infrared wavelengths of 3.70 and 3.90 micrometers, it can
   detect fires on the surface even through heavy smoke.

     Screen resolution
     Detail
     Full resolution

     Zoom animation (2.3MB)
     Zoom animation (7MB)
     Zoom animation (20MB)

   Band Comparison
   This pair of images was acquired by MODIS on Aug. 23 over Montana and
   Idaho; each image is 60 by 60 pixels and a single pixel is 1 square
   kilometer. The image on the left was made using MODIS' channel 20
   (centered at 3.7 micrometers); this image approximates the capability
   of the NOAA Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) to detect
   fires and measure their intensities. The image on the right uses MODIS'
   channel 21 (centered at 3.90 micrometers). Notice how MODIS channel 21
   shows greater sensitivity to the temperatures of the fires, which can
   help fire scientists pin point where there are active flaming fires and
   where fires are less intense or smoldering. This is important because
   large smoldering fires can contribute heavy amounts of pollutants into
   the atmosphere, while active flaming fires are often where fire
   firefighters concentrate their efforts for containment and suppression.

     Full resolution

   Burn Scar
   Roughly 2,000 fires burned across portions of Montana and Idaho,
   consuming more than 400,000 acres. This false-color image was acquired
   by MODIS on Sept. 7, after rains helped extinguish the flames. Burn
   scars left by the fires appear as dark purple patches.

     Full resolution

     Back to: News


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
