http://www.samhsa.gov//about/content/508.html



                         Accessibility

                                      Go to About page



   Section 508 Web Alternate Format

   For Alternative Access to Web Documents:

      Email webmaster@samhsa.gov  OR

      Contact the Help Desk, which is staffed by multiple individuals during
      business hours, and they will assist you.

   Synopsis of Section 508 Accessibility Requirements:

      Section 508 requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure,
      maintain, or use electronic and information technology (EIT), Federal
      employees with disabilities have comparable access to and use of
      information and data as Federal employees who have no disabilities,
      unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency. Section 508 also
      requires that individuals with disabilities, who are members of the
      public seeking information or services from a Federal agency, have
      comparable access to and use of information and data as the public
      without disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the
      agency.

      Although Federal agencies have an explicit statutory obligation to make
      all EIT that they develop, maintain or use compliant with Section 508,
      the current emphasis is on newly procured EIT because it is the
      category that is explicitly enforceable by legal action. Procurement
      awards made on or after June 25, 2001, are subject to Section 508
      (download FAR Final Rule in MS Word format).

      According to the Access Board, the Section 508 requirements do not
      apply retroactively to pre-existing EIT. Specifically, the "Electronic
      and Information Technology Accessibility Standards: Economic
      Assessment," states that

        "The standards are to be applied prospectively and do not require
        Federal agencies to retrofit existing electronic and information
        technology. As agencies upgrade and change their electronic and
        information technology, they must comply with the standards." (See
        Chapter 2.1 Final Standards)

      It should be noted, however, that other Federal regulations and
      guidelines (e.g., Section 501 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
      Act) require equal access for individuals with disabilities. Therefore,
   Federal agencies are required, upon request, to provide information and
   data to individuals with disabilities through an alternative means of
   access that can be used by the individuals.

     Go to SAMHSA Home Page

     This page was last updated on 18 January, 2002
            SAMHSA is An Agency of the U.S. Department of Health & Human
            Services

   Email Questions to info@samhsa.gov    |  Click for Non-frames / text
   version of site
                  Privacy Statement  |  Site Disclaimer
