http://search.sc.egov.usda.gov/searchhelp.htm

   USDA logo   United States Department of Agriculture
               Search Help

   The following table shows the search options you can use to get more
   accurate results.

   Search Type Description/Example
   Whole phrase Type natural resources in the Keywords field to find the
   exact phrase "natural resources." The search is not case-sensitive, so
   you'd get the same results if you typed Natural Resources.
   AND,
   AND NOT Type contract AND approval to find pages that have both the
   word "contract" and the word "approval" anywhere.
   Type contract AND NOT approval to find all pages with "contract," as
   long as it isn't followed by the word "approval."
   OR Type "contract OR agreement to find all pages that have the word
   "contract" or the word "agreement," but not necessarily both.
   NEAR Type contract NEAR approved to find all pages where the word
   "contract" is within 50 words of the word "approved." When you use
   NEAR, the closer together the words are, the higher the page is in your
   list of search results.

                                      *

   Look for words that begin with the same letter by using a single
   asterisk (*). For example, type mile* to find all pages with "mile,"
   "milestone," "mileage," etc.

                                     **

   Look for all forms of the word by using a double asterisk (**). For
   example, type educate** to find all pages with "educates," "educated,"
   "educating," "education," etc.
   Literal
   AND, OR, NOT, or NEAR To find pages with a phrase that uses the word
   "and," "or," "not," or "near," put the whole phrase in quotes. For
   example, if you type
      operations and maintenance
   you'll get all pages with the word "operations" and the word
   "maintenance" anywhere in the document. If you type
      "operations and maintenance"
   you'll only get pages that have the phrase "operations and maintenance"
   somewhere in the document.
