http://www.ssa.gov/budget/FAIRAct.htm

                 The Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act
                                   (FAIR)

   The Federal Activities Inventory Reform (FAIR) Act of 1998 was signed
   into law on October 12, 1998 (P.L. 105-270). The FAIR Act directs
   Federal agencies to submit each year an inventory of all activities
   performed by Federal employees that are not inherently governmental in
   nature (i.e., commercial in nature). The agency must transmit a copy of
   the inventory to Congress and make it available to the public. In
   passing the FAIR Act, Congress did not displace longstanding Executive
   Branch policy regarding the performance of commercial activities. The
   FAIR Act inventory does not represent a policy decision on the part of
   the agency on which activities it may consider for competition.
   The Federal government seeks to achieve economy and enhance
   productivity and quality through competition to obtain the best service
   at the least cost to the American taxpayer. Federal policy regarding
   the performance of commercial activities is outlined in OMB Circular
   A-76, Performance of Commercial Activities. Specific guidance regarding
   the implementation of this policy is provided by the March 1996 Revised
   Supplemental Handbook to the circular and by agency consultation with
   OMB. The FAIR Act codified some of that guidance into law.

    Additional information:   Background; Process; Review; Explanation of
           Categories; Organizational Codes in the Report; Appeals

      Here are links to the listings for the last three calendar years:
   Questions regarding the content of these documents should be emailed to
                         Phil Kelly, (410) 965-4656.
      Other background information on the FAIR Act, OMB Circular A-76,
     commercial activity function codes, agency inventories and related
           policies and procedures can be found at the OMB website
     * 2001 FAIR Act Listing  (PDF file 20 KB)
     * 2000 FAIR Act Listing  (PDF file 24 KB)
     * 1999 FAIR Act Listing  (PDF file 29 KB)

               Can't read PDF files? Get Acrobat Reader here.
