http://www.belmont.gov/news/ssystem.htm

     [blogo-4.gif]             NEWS

   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

   December 20, 2001

                                                      CONTACT: Thomas Fil
                                                           (650) 595-7435

              BELMONT RAISES FUNDS FOR SEWER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS

     Belmont, CA
     -- The City of Belmont has sold $7.5 million in revenue bonds to
     fund improvements to the City’s sewer system. The issue was sold at
     an average interest rate of less than 4.95% to a group of Wall
     Street firms led by Salomon Smith Barney. Proceeds of the issue will
     be used to construct improvements to the City’s sewer system,
     including rehabilitation of the system’s catch basins and pipelines.
     The improvements, which are underway, will lessen the intrusion of
     storm water during rainy periods and should produce cost savings to
     the City’s more than 8,000 customers.

     The low interest rate on the bonds is due to the City’s good credit
     rating from the investment community. Moody’s gave Belmont a rating
     of A3 and Fitch gave the City a rating of A. These ratings translate
     into savings for Belmont ratepayers, since the cost of making the
     sewer improvements is lower than it otherwise would be.

     "We were delighted with the extremely low rates offered on these
     bonds, and believe those rates are clear indications that the credit
     markets believe in the sound financial operations and quality of the
     management here in Belmont," said Thomas Fil, Belmont’s Finance
     Director. "Not only were the rates very attractive, but there were
     close to eighteen different firms actively bidding for the bonds,"
     he continued.

     The Salomon Smith Barney led syndicate has reoffered the bonds to
     the public at yields ranging from 2.00% in the year 2002, to 5% in
     the year 2031, the last year of the loan. The bonds are repayable
     from the fees that the City charges its customers for sewer service,
     and have no claim on other assets of the City. The City last raised
     sewer rates in Spring 2001.

                                    # # #
