http://www.va.gov/hottopic/


   Hot Topics Icon

                                VA Home Page

   Veterans Benefits & Services

   About VA

   Public Affairs & Special Events

   Congressional & Legislative Affairs

   Partners, Veterans Organizations, & Vendors

   What's New to the VA Web Site

   VA Seal: Return to VA Home Page
          [skip navigation]

   [skip navigation]
   Hot Topics
     * Holiday E-mail to Servicemembers -- A number of Web sites have
       sprung up to take the place of "Any Servicemember" mail and
       "Operation Dear Abby" programs that were suspended Oct. 30 due to
       anthrax mail attacks. The Navy has developed a Web-based program
       for the public to send messages to all service members. The program
       can be reached through the Navy LIFELines Services Network at
       http://AnyServiceMember.Navy.mil. The message board can also be
       reached through ArmyLINK at http://www.dtic.mil/armylink. The site
       was designed for those who want to send a message of support or
       holiday greeting to troops overseas. The "Any Servicemember"
       program allows users to select from one or all branches of the
       military.

     * VA Unveils Plans for National Museum Honoring Veterans -- On
       November 8, 2001, Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony J. Principi
       announced the creation of the National Veterans Museum to be
       located in the District of Columbia at the Department of Veterans
       Affairs (VA) headquarters building at 810 Vermont Avenue, NW.

     * Rapid Contingency Plans for Responding to Victims of a Chemical
       Attack - Handling Casualties and Decontamination (Word doc) / (PDF
       version) The Office of Public Health and Environmental Hazards has
       recently published a brochure (October 2001) outlining immediate
       steps that hospitals can take to protect their facilities, staff
       and patients as well as provide healthcare to casualties in the
       event of a chemical or biologial terrorist attack.

     * VA Claims Processing Task Force Final Report In fulfillment of a
       promise made during his confirmation, the Secretary of Veterans
       Affairs signed a charter establishing the Department of Veterans
       Affairs' Claims Processing Task Force on May 22, 2001.

     * Veterans Day -- November 11, 2001 -- A smorgasbord of Veterans Day
       information.
          + Download your own copy of this year's Veterans Day poster
          + Find Veterans Day information for teachers
          + Learn about the history of Veterans Day and the Veterans Day
            National Committee
          + Locate Regional Sites for the year 2001, and
          + Visit links of interest.

     * VA FAIR Act 2001 Inventory Pursuant to OMB notification in the
       Federal Register; and in accordance with the requirements of the
       FAIR Act, the VA FY 2001 Inventory of Commercial Activities is made
       available to the general public.

     * VA Implements Emergency Plan -- WASHINGTON -- September 11, 2001,
       Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony J. Principi has directed the
       Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to adopt a special "continuity
       of operations" plan in the wake of terrorist attacks in New York
       and Washington.

     * Breaking News: VA Links Agent Orange and Diabetes
       "Collection of related web sites, news releases, facts sheets, news
       features on Agent Orange and Diabetes"

     * Hepatitis C Research and Education -- Find out about the hepatitis
       C virus (HCV), the leading cause of liver disease. Veterans and
       health care providers can now access valuable resources pertinent
       to the testing, treatment and management of HCV.

     * National Survey of Veterans The Department is currently sponsoring
       a national survey of veterans, the fifth in a series of national
       surveys begun in 1978. The survey consists of telephone interviews
       directly with veterans. The survey contractor, Westat Inc., is
       asking veterans about their military background, health status,
       disabilities, education and needs for services. The data collected
       will be used as input for policy and planning purposes.

     * Federal Benefits for Veterans and Dependents (2001 Edition)
       The 2001 edition of this booklet lists the variety of federal
       benefits available to veterans and their dependents. Selecting the
       link above will download the booklet as a PDF file, The Spanish
       version of the booklet is being translated and will be available
       through this website as a .pdf document.
       La versión en Español de el folleto "Benfeficios Federales para los
       Veteranos y sus Dependientes", el cual explica la variedad de
       beneficios disponibles para los veteranos y sus dependientes, se
       encuentra disponsible en versión PDF al precionar aqui.

   PDF File Documents
       To read pdf file documents, you will need Acrobat Reader 3.0 (or
       higher) or a pdf viewer. You can download a free copy of Acrobat
       Reader.


   VA Home Page / Search / Site Map / Facilities Locator / Disclaimer
   Privacy & Security Statement / Freedom of Information Act / Contact the
   VA


   Reviewed/Updated: November 1, 2001
