http://www.eric.ed.gov/about/about.html

   Skip Navigation
   ERIC Search ERIC Database Ask ERIC ERIC Digests
        Publications Resources About ERIC
   Educational Resources Information Center
   Department of Education
   Skip Navigation
   Search Site
   Feedback Form
   Site Map
   FAQ
   Support Components
   EDRS
   Facility
   Adjuncts/Affiliates
   ERIC System Directory

                                 ACCESS ERIC
                             2277 Research Blvd.
                                    MS 4M
                             Rockville, MD 20850
                                800 LET-ERIC
                                800 538-3742
                                 accesseric@
                               accesseric.org

   Skip Navigation
   Adult, Career, and Vocational Education
   Assessment and Evaluation
   Community Colleges
   Counseling and Student Services
   Disabilities and Gifted Education
   Educational Management
   Elementary and Early Childhood Education
   Higher Education
   Information & Technology
   Languages and Linguistics
   Reading, English, and Communication
   Rural Education and Small Schools
   Science, Mathematics, and Environmental Education
   Social Studies/Social Science Education
   Teaching and Teacher Education
   Urban Education

      Start of Main Content About ERIC

      The ERIC System

      The Educational Resources Information Center (ERIC) is a national
      information system designed to provide ready access to an extensive
      body of education-related literature. Established in 1966, ERIC is
      supported by the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Educational
      Research and Improvement and is administered by the National Library of
      Education (NLE).

      At the heart of ERIC is the largest education database in the
      world-containing more than 1 million records of journal articles,
      research reports, curriculum and teaching guides, conference papers,
      and books.

      The ERIC system, through its 16 subject-specific clearinghouses,
      associated adjunct clearinghouses, and support components, provides a
      variety of services and products that can help you stay up to date on a
      broad range of education-related issues. Products and services include
      research syntheses, electronic journals, online directories, reference
      and referral services, and document delivery.
      Mission

      The mission of the ERIC system is to improve American education by
      increasing and facilitating the use of educational research and
      information to improve practice in learning, teaching, educational
      decision making, and research, wherever and whenever these activities
      take place.

      You can find additional information about ERIC in the following
      resources:


   A Pocket Guide to ERIC -- Briefly explains the ERIC system, its
   services and products, and their use in a handy reference guide.
   All About ERIC -- Contains a comprehensive and detailed description of
   the ERIC system.
   ERIC Annual Report -- Summarizes the recent accomplishments of the ERIC
   system.
   ERICNews -- Includes information about new ERIC document delivery
   services, new ERIC publications and products, ERIC Web site
   enhancements and updates, systemwide administrative announcements, and
   more.
   ERIC Slide Show -- Provides an introduction to the ERIC database, tips
   on searching ERIC, and an overview of ERIC's products and services.
   Submitting Documents to ERIC -- Describes the what, why, where, and how
   of submitting documents to ERIC.

   For more publications, visit the Publications section.

               This page was updated on Fri Nov 2 19:18:28 GMT 2001

      Clear

          Skip Navigation Search ERIC Database | AskERIC | ERIC Digests |
                       Publications | Resources | About ERIC

                   Search Site | Feedback Form | Site Map | FAQ
           EDRS | Facility | Adjuncts/Affiliates | ERIC System Directory
