http://www.usfa.fema.gov/arson/

   USFA SEAL Blank Image Arson Prevention Banner Image


                                   Arson
        Navigation Menu Link          Arson Awareness Week
        Navigation Menu Link         Arson Unit Assistance
        Navigation Menu Link               AIMS 2000
        Navigation Menu Link              NFA Training
        Navigation Menu Link               interFIRE
        Navigation Menu Link                 FLAMES
        Navigation Menu Link              Publications
        Navigation Menu Item           Juvenile Workshops

        For information on arson resources available from USFA, call
                               888-603-3100.

                            Target Arson Logo


   Photo of a warehouse fully involved in fire as the result of an arson.

   What's New Line
              [Navigate usfa.fema.gov__]




     USFA Offers New Fire/Arson Investigation Studies for Fire and Law
     Enforcement Agencies
     WASHINGTON -- November 19 - USFA announced today the beginning of its
     14th annual program of providing direct technical assistance to
     selected state and local fire investigation agencies. This project is
     part of USFAs ongoing effort to strengthen and enhance the work of fire
     investigation units across the country.




     Arson for Prosecutors Training Seminar
     The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, in conjunction with the
     Federal Emergency Management Agency/National Fire Academy and the
     Louisiana Chapter of the International Association of Arson
     Investigators will be presenting a three day Arson for Prosecutors
     training seminar in New Orleans, Louisiana. This seminar will be held
     at the Hampton Inn and Suites on August 7, 8 and 9, 2001.




     Arson Awareness Week 2001
     The theme for this year's Arson Awareness Week will focus on arson at
     abandoned buildings.




     Bomb Threat Card Released for First Responders
     The Technical Support Working Group, a Federal Interagency group
     focusing on new technology for Countering Terrorism, has released the
     Bomb Threat Standoff Card for use by all Federal emergency and law
     enforcement officers, and all State and Local Fire, Law Enforcement,
     HAZMAT, Bomb Squad, EMS, and other emergency/public services
     organizations who may be involved with the evacuation of areas affected
     by a terrorist bomb threat.




     National Church Arson Task Force - Fourth Year Report
     WASHINGTON, DC -- The National Church Arson Task Force has issued its
     fourth report to President Clinton, highlighting statistics that
     indicate the number of arsons at houses of worship continues to
     decline. Task Force officials attribute their success, in part, to
     continued vigilance, well-publicized arrests and ongoing prevention
     efforts. For more details, please visit the ATF web site.




     Two New Fire, Arson Scene Investigation Guides Available from Justice
     Department
     A Guide for Explosion and Bombing Scene Investigation and Fire and
     Arson Scene Investigation: A Guide for Public Safety Personnel outline
     basic procedures and tasks that should be considered at every scene.




     interFIRE Virtual-reality Arson Investigation Training Program Released
     This CD-ROM program combines the latest investigative techniques with
     state-of-the-art interactive computer training technology to create the
     most comprehensive arson investigation training tool to date.

            [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


       Last Updated: November 19, 2001

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
