http://mcmcweb.er.usgs.gov/vector/

   Link to the USGS Home Page
     __________________________________________________________________

                               VECTOR DATA FAQ

   This document is a compilation of questions that have been submitted to
   the contract support team of the U.S. Geological Surveys (USGS)
   National Mapping Division (NMD). We are publishing this information to
   assist the contractors and others who have an interest in digital line
   graph (DLG) data. The questions were submitted by various contractors
   who are performing vector revision in support of the USGS DLG vector
   program.

   We recommend that anyone using this information also read the
   following:
     *  Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding
     *  Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle
       Maps
     *  Technical Criteria for Digital Revision and Product Generation

   This document provides information on available production software,
   specific DLG overlays, and a list of the most common errors found by
   our data validators.

CONTENTS

   1.   U.S. Geological Survey Software
           1.1      Microstation Vector Editing System (MVES)
           1.2      Digital Line Graph Production System (PROSIX)
   2.   General Questions
   3.   Most Common Digital Line Graph Questions By Overlay
           3.1      Boundaries
           3.2      Hydrography
           3.3      Miscellaneous Transportation
           3.4      Roads And Trails
           3.5      Public Land Survey System
   4.   Most Common Editing Calls By Overlay
           4.1      Hydrography
           4.2      Manmade Features
           4.3      Miscellaneous Transportation
           4.4      Railroads
           4.5      Roads And Trails

1.  U.S. GEOLOGICAL SURVEY SOFTWARE

   1.1      Microstation Vector Editing System (MVES)

   Question: We are using MVES for all of our translating and updating. I
   translated the file to a DLG-Optional (DO) and then back to a
   MicroStation design file (DGN). When the file translated back to DGN,
   all the elements changed to white, and all the areas and nodes came
   back in as X. When the element is selected to do a review/attribute,
   the element type is right and the attribute is right. The file seems to
   be OK as far as attributes are considered, but it is much harder to
   work in because of the color and element problem. Do you have any ideas
   on how to fix this or why it happened?
   Answer: Try reattaching the MicroStation color table and see if that
   resets your default colors; also, check to see if the cell library is
   attached. It should be \mves\cell\dlg.cel. If that does not help, then
   reinstall MVES. The seed files may be corrupted.

  1.2      Digital Line Graph Production System (PROSIX)

   Question: What do we do about duplicate points in a line string when
   first structuring the digital cartographic file?
   Answer: Duplicate points are created during collection. PROSIX will
   delete all duplicate points.

   Question: How do we set edge reason flags?
   Answer: Use editcop--srf.

   Question: We are having a problem with numerous Attribute Verification
   Package (AVP) errors in the hydrographic overlay. How do we solve this?
   Answer: After examining the .p file from the hydrographic file, we
   determined that a flood was causing several lines to be flagged. If a
   single area associated with several lines is being identified by AVP,
   that usually indicates a flood.

   Question: What is the PROSIX overlay name for miscellaneous
   transportation?
   Answer: Pipe & Trans Line.

   Question: How do we install PROSIX on Sun Solaris?
   Answer: You need to download two files from the ftp site at
   ftp://ftpmcmc.er.usgs.gov/release/prosix2.
   The files you need are p6.sun.i.393 (the installation file) and
   p6.sun.r.393 (the release).

   To install PROSIX, create a directory named /usr/opt/prosix. Copy both
   the release file and the installation file to your home directory, then
   execute the installation program by entering p6.sun.i.393.

   When the installation program displays the install menu, select option
   3 for the SUN. The program will invoke the self-extracting release
   file, which creates directories and copies files contained in the
   release to the appropriate directories.

   The PROSIX directory must be added to the path variable in each user's
   profile: Add /usr/prosix to the path variable in the user's cshrc file.

   Question: Features being snapped to the neatline during alignment are a
   problem. How do we solve this?
   Answer: Move the features 5 mils away from the neatline during
   compilation, or add a piece of the feature to the adjoining edge.

   Question: We are receiving the error code ACOP106 ERROR >4751 LINES IN
   AREA 5328 LINE LIST. What should we do?
   Answer: PROSIX is telling you that you have exceeded the limit of lines
   allowed in an area. Area 5328 is the area PROSIX established in the
   center of the overlay. In this case, the error occurred because of the
   large number of lines that were collected and the number of unnecessary
   nodes that were established. The solution is to combine as many lines
   as possible to reduce the number of lines in polygon 5328.

   A stream was not connected because of a break in the scribed line on
   the lithograph. It was probably originally compiled that way because of
   the timber. The stream was connected in Microstation, which created two
   areas, thus reducing the number of lines associated with Area 5328.

   The MicroStation design file (DGN) was translated to a DLG-Optional
   (DO). A digital cartographic file (DCF) was created in PROSIX, and the
   following PROSIX functions were used:
     * Line/Node association check (LNA) - with the snapping tolerances
       set to 5, 5, 3, and 30. (Floating nodes were found in the file at
       this time.)
     * Remove unnecessary nodes (RUN)
     * Check intersections and proximities (CIP)
     * Line/Area association check (LAA)

   The file then processed without further problems. Please note: if there
   is not a place where a line can be connected to reduce the number of
   lines in an area, a processing line (50.299) can be added to divide the
   area.

   Question: PROSIX is flagging all flats and mangroves. What is the
   problem?
   Answer: Flats should also carry the code of the larger hydrographic
   feature in which they occur, with exceptions. See Standards for Digital
   Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding , Section 3.2, attribute
   050.0115. Mangrove is being flagged by AVP because it is using a
   previous guideline, expecting an apparent limit (50.204) to border the
   mangrove. Ignore the warning.

   Question: Why is PROSIX flagging rock areas as invalid attribution?
   Answer: The code 50.410 (rock) is used for an individual rock collected
   as a degenerate line. A rock reef is collected as a line that connects
   the high points of the closed, outer part of the reef symbol, with the
   attribute codes 50.422(reef) and 50.633 (rock) added to the line. See
   Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding, Section
   3.2, attribute 050.0422.

   Question: Why is PROSIX flagging channels?
   Answer: PROSIX is flagging the line that contains the polygon of the
   channel because it is unattributed; this is just a warning. The area
   needs to have the code of the larger hydrographic feature. See
   Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding, Section
   3.2, attribute 050.0419.

2.  GENERAL QUESTIONS

   Question: Are we responsible for revising original data that are off
   copy from the digital orthophoto quadrangle (DOQ)?
   Answer: The contractors are responsible for revising all data that are
   more than 73 feet off from the source (DOQ), do not adequately
   represent the shape, or do not represent the feature's connectivity
   with other features.

   See Technical Criteria for Digital Revision and Product Generation,
   Section 1.1.3.3.

   Please note: Check each overlay against the others to verify that
   features are registered vertically.

   Question: Which source date should we use?
   Answer: Use the date of the current source (DOQ's or photographs) as
   the source date in the header for image-based categories. For other
   categories, see the list below. The confusion may come from instances
   where a quadrangle has two different source dates. For example, the
   east flight may be from 1994 and the west flight from 1995. When this
   happens, the earlier of the two dates should be used.

   There are occasions when the date of the DOQ's and the photographs
   differ. Use the date of the source that was used for compilation, and
   notify the point of contact (POC) of the source used.

   Boundary - Use the date provided. This is the date the materials were
   received by the USGS. If you are unsure of the date, contact your POC.

   PLSS - Use the most current field check date or plane table survey
   date. These are located in the lower left margin of the map.

   Hypsography - revised - Use the date of the imagery.

   Hypsography - not revised - Use the date of the original photograph or
   plane table survey.

   Question: In regard to theme or feature priority and the allowance for
   redigitizing photorevised roads, can we also apply this approach to the
   hydrographic theme? This question arose when we were working with a
   quadrangle where many of the ditches and streams were messy and better
   dealt with by redigitizing. Do we understand correctly that the order
   of feature priority from highest to lowest is railroads, roads,
   miscellaneous transportation, hydrograpy, photorevised roads,
   photorevised hydrography, and then boundaries?
   Answer: In the DLG world, the only features that are affected by
   feature priority are transmission lines and pipe lines. Other features,
   such as roads, railroads, and hydrographic features, will be shown in
   their true position. There may be a positional problem with the
   photorevised features shown in purple on the original map and on maps
   made before 1960. If features are > 73 ft out of position, or if they
   interfere with the position of a new feature, then the features need to
   be adjusted.

   It is always the contractors option to decide whether to delete an area
   and redigitize. According to Technical Criteria for Digital Revision
   and Product Generation, Section 1.1.3.3, you should collect or
   reposition new or positionally modified features in the source
   position, unless there is a conflict with an existing feature. If there
   is a conflict, displace the feature of lesser priority. We suggest
   using the following list to determine the feature of lesser priority:

   Hierarchy (Order) of Importance or Priority - (general guidance only!)
         horizontal monumented control
         railroads
         major roads, major canals, major dams, major levees, airports
         minor roads, minor levees
         transmission lines, pipelines
         other cultural features - buildings, tanks, mines, and so on
         trails
         hydrography - natural, minor manmade
         underground features
         contours - fences - woodland
         unsurveyed, indefinite, or submerged features

   When a point feature interferes with a linear feature of regular
   alignment, such as a road, railroad, or canal, the linear feature is
   held in position and the point feature is moved. If the interfering
   linear feature has an irregular course like a stream or a trail, the
   point feature is held fixed, and the linear feature is displaced.

   Two types of linear features are allowed to intersect with point
   features on the map: those that do not represent physical structures
   (there are a few exceptions), such as minor boundaries (not national or
   state) and section lines, and those that are not on the same physical
   level as the point feature, such as power lines and underground
   pipelines.

   The displacement should be at a right angle to the linear feature by
   the shortest distance necessary for legibility, .005 inch, or 10 feet,
   minimum.

3.  MOST COMMON DIGITAL LINE GRAPH QUESTIONS BY OVERLAY

  3.1      Boundaries

   Question: Do we register the boundaries to the revised features or to
   the digital raster graphic (DRG)?
   Answer: Boundaries should be registered to the latest information
   available. If there are revised transportation, hydrography, and Public
   Land Survey System (PLSS) layers available, the boundaries should be
   registered to them. If there is no DLG information available for one or
   more of these layers (usually PLSS), the only alternative is to
   register the revised boundaries to the DRG. A combination of DLG and
   DRG may be necessary in some instances. Remember, always register to
   the DLG first, and then use the DRG if necessary.

   Question: Is there a hierarchy of attributes in the boundary overlay?
   Answer: There is no hierarchical order of attributes in the boundary
   category, but the preferred way is 90.####,91.####,92.####. If you need
   to add an attribute to an existing area, it is not necessary to place
   it in numerical order.

   Question: The Nonimage Validation Review Report indicates that the
   header dates should be changed to 1998. The Cartographic Services
   Contract Vector Workshop Manual, in the Data Validation section, states
   that "If there is a range of revision imagery dates, use the oldest
   date (i.e.: 1993-94, use 1993)." The revision imagery date in this case
   is 1994. Could you clarify this and give us some feedback?
   Answer: This rule only applies to the image-based overlays.

   Boundary - Use the date provided. This is the date the materials were
   received by the USGS. If you are unsure of the date, consult your point
   of contact.

   PLSS - Use the most current field check date or planetable survey date.
   These are found in the lower left margin of the map.

   Hypsography - revised - Use the date of the imagery.

   Hypsography - not revised - Use the date of the original photograph or
   planetable survey.

  3.2      Hydrography

   Question: The existing attribute code for the swamp outlines (50.204,
   apparent limit) has been called to be deleted. What is the correct
   attribute for the outline?
   Answer: The lines that represent the outlines of the swamp polygons are
   unattributed. See Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute
   Coding, Section 3.2 attribute 050.0111.

   Question: The code for wooded (50.613) is no longer used. When we
   removed it from the original DLG, areas were created where swamp joined
   swamp. What should we do?
   Answer: Make the swamps into one area by deleting the line that
   separates the two areas and deleting one of the area points.

   Question: Should swamps be broken for class 3 roads?
   Answer: Yes, swamps should be broken for class 3 roads. See the
   Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps,
   Part 2: Hydrography, SWAMP/MARSH, Source Interpretation Guidelines,
   which states that swamps should be broken for railroads and class 1 and
   2 roads. However, the next line of the Standard states "Break
   SWAMP/MARSH for clearings that are >= 0.05" along the shortest axis, or
   for linear clearings that are >= 0.025" along the shortest axis." This
   was the subject of discussions about 2 years ago. It was decided then
   that the linear break for a class 3 road would be at least 0.025", and
   by definition a class 3 road is improved and passable in all kinds of
   weather.

   Question: When a stream flows through a swamp, how are the nodes
   attributed?
   Answer: If a stream flows through a swamp, do not add the entering and
   exiting water body codes. The entering and exiting water body codes are
   used when a stream stops or starts at the edge of, or within the limits
   of, a swamp. See Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute
   Coding,
   Section 3.2 attributes 050.0004 and 050.0005.

   Question: If a stream or river has been impounded, when is the
   shoreline attribute code (50.200) used, rather than the right bank and
   left bank attribute codes (50.605 and 50.606)?
   Answer: Please refer to the Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3:
   Attribute Coding, Section 3.2.1, Feature Classification and
   Delineation. It gives general guidelines on when to consider a feature
   as a lake or as a stream.

   An example of this can be found along the Ohio River on the Vanceburg,
   Garrison, Concord, Buena Vista, and Pond Run, Kentucky, quadrangles.
   The Ohio should be coded as a river with the right and left bank
   attributes, because the river has been dammed to maintain water levels
   for navigation, and the river retains its riverlike appearance.

   The other instance occurs when a dam impounds water that inundates an
   area to such an extent that the water body no longer maintains the
   shape of a river. In this case, the area should be coded as a lake, and
   the shoreline code used.

   The question then becomes where to change the code from a lake back to
   a stream. Most lakes formed from impounding a double-line stream will
   have the normal pool elevation printed on the map. The change should be
   made in the approximate area of this elevation. For example, on a
   quadrangle with a 20-foot contour interval, if the lake has a normal
   pool of 724 feet, the area should change from a lake to a stream
   approximately one-fifth of the way between the 720-feet and 740-feet
   contours. The code on the bounding vectors would change from shoreline
   to right bank and left bank at the same point. This can affect numerous
   quadrangles.

   A good example is on the Sawyer and Cumberland Falls, Kentucky,
   quadrangles. Damming the Cumberland River formed Lake Cumberland. The
   area of Lake Cumberland on the Sawyer quadrangle has been inundated and
   no longer maintains the shape of the river. The numerous fingers of the
   lake extending up valleys show this. The lake's elevation is given as
   723 feet. However, the water body becomes much more riverlike on the
   south one-half of the quadrangle, and is labeled "Cumberland River."
   Follow the 720-foot contour to determine where the change should be
   made from lake to river. The contour runs off the south edge of the
   quadrangle within the inundated area. Therefore, the change should take
   place on the Cumberland Falls quadrangle. The 720-foot contour is not
   on Cumberland Falls, so use the 740-foot contour. The change should
   take place about halfway between the 720-foot contour on the Sawyer
   quadrangle and the 740-foot contour on the Cumberland Falls quadrangle.

   On quadrangles that have an inundation area symbolized, the change
   should take place where the line bounding the inundation area crosses
   the stream.

   Question: Should the shape of a swamp be changed to match the
   photograph? (If there are no manmade changes, can the shape be made
   larger to match the photograph; should a swamp be deleted if it's
   obviously no longer there, even if there are no manmade changes?)
   Answer: No. The Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and
   Quadrangle Maps, Part 2: Hydrography, Source Interpretation Guidelines,
   Revision, reads Do not revise. Retain existing features. So if there
   are no manmade changes, the swamp outline should match the lithograph.

   Please Note: Some of the swamp areas in Florida may look dryer or
   wetter because of the date the photograph was taken.

   Question: Since the photography was done during the drought season,
   should ponds be deleted if it is apparent that there is no water in
   them (dried up without manmade change)?
   Answer: If there are no apparent manmade changes that would alter the
   pond or the shoreline, or if there is nothing to indicate that the
   drainage feeding the pond has been disrupted, then leave the shape and
   size of the pond alone.

   Please note: This is applicable on the Florida projects and is
   specified in the task orders. This does not apply to projects outside
   Florida unless specified in the task order or by the POC in writing.

   Question: How are islands in a double-line stream attributed?
   Answer: If the islands are large enough to be collected, the vector is
   coded 50.200, shoreline. See the Standards for Digital Line Graphs,
   Part 3: Attribute Coding, Section 3.2.1, Feature Classification, for
   attribution, and refer to Coding Principles for size requirements.

   Question: Should new ponds be collected in existing swamps?
   Answer: If a definite shoreline or signs of dredging can be seen, then
   a new pond can be shown in the middle of the swamp. If the new pond has
   completely replaced the swamp, then delete the swamp and show the new
   pond. Check the task order for special conditions, such as low or high
   water.

   Question: There have been calls to delete ponds that are too small, and
   on the same quadrangle there are now calls to add ponds that are
   smaller than the minimum specification. Why?
   Answer: Ponds that were on the existing map should be collected no
   matter what size they are, as long as they still exist. New ponds must
   meet the minimum size criteria. The size criteria changed recently. The
   standard used to be 100 feet in the shortest dimension. This is the
   standard for Florida and the DLG-3 Core projects. The standard now
   reads 50 feet in the shortest dimension and 10,000 square feet in area.
   This is the standard for all of the non-Core digital limited update
   (DLU) outside Florida.

   Question: Do we collect all ditches, or do we show a representative
   pattern?
   Answer: Show a representative pattern. There are many swamp and
   agricultural areas where ditch density is very high. In these areas,
   the main ditches should be shown.

   In the past, the criteria for showing canals/ditches on maps was that
   main canals and ditches and their main laterals are always mapped.
   Sublaterals are mapped except where space is limited by map detail.
   Tributaries are omitted. The final decision for the feature templates
   was that new canals/ditches will be added during revision if they are
   named or if they are > 10 feet along the shortest axis. New
   canals/ditches should be added during revision according to the current
   capture conditions rather than the older criteria. We acknowledge that
   the quality of imagery can vary, and it can be difficult to accurately
   measure the width of narrow linear features. Also, most of the
   canals/ditches that were left off of the original source maps were
   probably not wider than 10 feet. For these reasons, we recommend that
   during revision our contractors be very selective and add only those
   canals/ditches that are obviously well over 10 feet wide. If there is a
   tight pattern of sublateral ditches, then a representative pattern is
   acceptable.

   Question: Should ditches paralleling roads be collected?
   Answer: Canals/ditches paralleling roads are not usually collected, but
   if it is necessary for the continuity of a drainage pattern or if the
   canals/ditches are major ones, then collect them.

   All existing named canals/ditches should be compiled.

   In the western United States, there are many instances of important
   canals/ditches paralleling roads and other linear features.
   Canals/ditches in those areas should be collected if they meet capture
   conditions and adhere to the comments in the previous question.

   Question: Do we use the underpassing code (50.617) on streams and
   ditches where they go under roads?
   Answer: No. See the Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3:
   Attribute Coding, Section 3.2, attribute 050.0617. The underpassing
   code is used only when a linear hydrographic feature passes under any
   other linear hydrographic feature.

   Question: Is the intermittent code used on ditches?
   Answer. No, the intermittent code is not used on ditches. See the
   Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding, Section
   3.2, attribute 050.0610.

   Question: How do you globally remove interpolated elevations without
   removing regular elevations on water bodies?
   Answer: Build a job in editcop that includes the following:
   RAC
   2-L
   50.619,51.****/50.619
   -AC
   2-L
   50.619

   Question: What do we do if we cannot determine direction of flow?
   Answer: If in doubt, do not code flow; use contours to help determine
   flow. Do not forget to use the contours of adjoining maps when
   appropriate. If the flow is coded on part of a drainage basin, it
   should be coded on all of it. Streams ending at a sink may be an
   exception to this. The sink attribute 50.3 is only used when a sink
   symbol is shown on the graphic.

   See Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding,
   Section 3.2.1, Flow Direction.

   Question: We have two quadrangles where the streams do not join. An
   intermittent stream is shown on one quadrangle, but the downstream part
   of the same stream is not shown on the adjacent quadrangle. We
   understand that we are not supposed to add new streams. How should we
   handle this situation?
   Answer: New streams should not be added during limited update; however,
   there are a few logical exceptions. This is one of them. Add the
   downstream part where you see the cut of the drain. If the drain is in
   timber, use the contours on the DRG to help with placement. Note on the
   road guide why you have added the stream. Place the note on the
   lithograph supplied when there is not a road guide.

   See Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle
   Maps, Part 2: Hydrography, STREAM/RIVER, Revision-Limited.

   Question: We have a perennial drain and an intermittent drain that join
   at a quadrangle edge. What should we do?
   Answer: Make a judgement as to which is correct. If the intermittent
   drain flows into the perennial drain, find a logical place for it to
   change. Change a small segment of the drain on one quadrangle or the
   other, breaking it at a point where another drain or a spring flows in.
   If there is not another drain or a spring close to the edge, try using
   the contours on the DRG and break where another drain is indicated by
   the topography. If the perennial drain flows into the intermittent
   drain, try to determine from the upstream and downstream parts what the
   classification should be. If one classification is bounded on both ends
   by the other, change that segment and note on the lithograph what you
   have done and why. If you are in doubt about which segment to change,
   call your POC.

   Please note: The definition of intermittent versus perennial was
   changed sometime in the 1960's. Occasionally one may encounter cases
   where the perennial stream is from a pre-1960's map and the
   intermittent stream (which is more likely to be correct) is from a
   post-1960's map. Checking the map dates may help in the decision
   process.

   Question: Does a channel receive a "right or left bank" code (for
   example, an intercoastal waterway)?
   Answer: Channels do not receive direction of flow. The symbolized part
   of the outline of the area is unattributed. A closure line (50.202) is
   digitized to close off any unsymbolized part of the outline. See the
   Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding, Section
   3.2, attribute 050.0419.

   Question: When a channel (areal or linear) flows through an areal
   hydrographic feature, should we include that features attribute code
   with the channel attribution? I'm asking these questions because the
   standards seem to state everything about channels in reference to
   creating a graphic product rather than a DLG. I want to verify that we
   are applying the proper interpretation.
   Answer: When a channel flows through an areal hydrographic feature on
   topographic edition maps, and the channel area is shown with blue tint,
   the area will also be assigned the code of the larger hydrographic
   feature in which it occurs.

   See the Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding,
   Section 3.2, attribute 050.0419.

   Please note: Most standards were written with a graphic product in
   mind. Also, most existing DLGs were made directly from graphic maps,
   not by a direct compilation process.

   Question: We have a situation where the swamp on one quadrangle does
   not join the swamp on another quadrangle. We have been instructed not
   to alter swamp outlines unless there is evidence of manmade change. How
   do we make the quadrangles join?
   Answer: This is an exception to the rule. Use the photographs to
   determine the outline of the swamp. Close off the polygon on the edge
   containing the swamp, or add a small piece of swamp polygon on the
   edge. Each case will depend on the photointerpretation. Note the change
   on the lithograph so that we will know the reason for the addition.

   Question: The northwest section of a Florida quadrangle contains many
   areas that look similar to areas bounded as swamp regions. Should I
   capture these areas? There are a few lakes included in this region,
   which looks drier than the swamps. I am inclined not to do any
   capturing or altering of line work in this area, but the photographs
   are marked by many of these uncaptured swamp areas, and it seems that
   capturing these swamps would make the data more consistent.
   Answer: No, don't add any new swamps. Varying water levels could be
   making normally dry areas look swampy or normally swampy areas look
   dry. The photographs of Florida have unusual water conditions, as noted
   in the task orders.

   Question: There are many new strip mine areas; should we add the water
   in these areas or leave them alone?
   Answer: If the water bodies meet capture conditions, then collect them.

   Question: Can reservoirs be intermittent?
   Answer: The hydrographic category intermittent (or the default
   perennial) is not specified for filtration ponds, sewage treatment
   ponds, aquaculture ponds, settling ponds, minimum size water storage
   reservoirs (0-D), nonearthen water storage reservoirs, swimming pools,
   decorative ponds, and unspecified ponds. However, on new graphics with
   Part 5 symbology, they will be shown with the same screen that is used
   for perennial fill. The Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line
   Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 2: Hydrography, RESERVOIR,
   ATTRIBUTE/ATTRIBUTE VALUE LIST indicates that earthen, uncovered water
   storage reservoirs are classified as perennial or intermittent.

  3.3      Miscellaneous Transportation

   Question: When should we delete or not collect pipe lines and
   transmission lines because of other features?
   Answer: See Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and
   Quadrangle Maps, Part 6: Built-up, TRANSMISSION LINE, Capture
   Conditions. If the transmission line is above ground, is a major
   cross-country metal, concrete, or double-wood-pole transmission line,
   is a landmark, and is not within 500 feet of and parallel to another
   linear feature, it should be compiled. If these features already exist,
   they should be left. New pipelines or transmission lines within 500
   feet of and parallel to a linear feature, such as a road or railroad,
   should not be collected.

  3.4      Roads And Trails

   Question: What is the difference between a 170.209, a 170.217, and a
   170.218?
   Answer: Undivided class 3 roads are attributed 170.209. Class 3 roads
   that are divided by a median of less than 20 feet are attributed as
   170.217. Those that are divided by medians of more than 20 feet and
   have an overall road width greater than 100 feet are attributed as
   170.218. No lengths or widths are used in the description of 170.218.
   According to ROAD feature templates, if the median is >= 20 feet and
   the road is >= 100 feet, it is captured as two separate roads.

   See Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding,
   Section 3.7, attributes 170.0209, 170.0217, and 170.0218.

   Question: What is the difference between separated and divided roads?
   Answer: Divided means that there is a median (or divider) in the road.
   Separated means that the median (or divider) is equal to or greater
   that than 20 feet, and the overall width of the road is equal to or
   greater than 100 feet. Class 1 and 2 divided roads with medians
   narrower than 20 feet are symbolized as one lane with a centerline
   median. Class 3 roads with medians narrower than 20 feet are shown on
   maps with Part 5 symbology as one lane without a centerline median.
   Class 1, 2, and 3 roads with medians equal to or greater than 20 feet
   and with an overall road width equal to or greater than 100 feet are
   symbolized with two different lanes.

   If there are class 1, 2, or 3 roads with medians greater than or equal
   to 20 feet, and the overall width of the road is greater than or equal
   to 100 feet, collect the roads using the divided, lanes separated codes
   (170.203, 170.207, and 170.218). If symbolized on the map, they would
   appear as two separate lanes. Digitize the center of each lane.

   If there are class 1, 2, or 3 roads with medians less than 20 feet, and
   if the overall width of the road is greater than or equal to 100 feet,
   or if there are medians of any size and the overall width of the road
   is less than 100 feet, then collect the roads using the divided by
   centerline codes (170.202, 170.206, and 170.217). If shown on a map
   using Part 5 symbology, the class 1 and class 2 roads would appear to
   be one lane with a centerline median, and the class 3 roads would
   appear as one lane without a median (on Part 6 maps, the class 3 road
   would be shown with a three-line symbol). Digitize the road as a single
   vector coincident with the median.

   Question: Should we capture the service road under transmission lines?
   And would we code this as Class 4?
   Answer: If the road is only a service road for the transmission lines,
   then don't show the road. In some cases, the road is map worthy, such
   as when it is a connector with other roads, gives access to a complex,
   or is the only access to remote areas. In such cases the road would be
   shown and the transmission line omitted.

   See Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle
   Maps, Part 6: Built-up, TRANSMISSION LINE. If a transmission line
   symbol parallels a linear feature, such as a Railway or a Road that
   meets capture conditions, and if the separation is less than 500 feet,
   then do not collect that section of the transmission line.

   Question: How are roads that are under construction in new housing
   areas handled? What if some of these roads are shown as class 4 on the
   original map?
   Answer: If it is obvious that the area has been developed or that
   development is in progress and it is clear where the new roads will be,
   collect them as class 3. Class 4 roads should be upgraded to class 3 if
   they are part of the street pattern of a subdivision.

   Question: Some new roads are in areas shown as swamp and even ponds on
   the original map. How should this be handled?
   Answer: Features need to be vertically registered. In other words, they
   have to register to each other and make sense. Ponds and swamps have to
   be pulled back from new subdivisions, roads and railroads, and new
   agricultural areas.

   Question: We've encountered arcs coded 170.602 (overpassing on bridge)
   in the original data. On the lithograph, there are no graphic
   indications of wing ticks as the standards require for capture. Should
   I leave the ones I've encountered and refrain from adding this code?
   Would you go over the capture condition for overpassing on bridge code
   170.602 and the node code 170.001? When there are new roads in this
   area overpassing canals on bridges, should we code these as 170.602?
   Answer: To show a bridge, it has to be > 240 feet along the longest
   axis and carry a transportation feature. The bridge abutment code
   (170.1) will be placed on each end of the part coded overpassing on
   bridge (170.602). (The limit of BRIDGE is the extent of the span as
   defined by the edges of the deck and the end abutments.) This applies
   to both new features and existing DLG features. If the existing DLG has
   170.602 on a feature that does not meet capture conditions, the code
   should be removed.

   See the Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle
   Maps, Part 3: Transportation, BRIDGE, Capture conditions and the
   Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding, Section
   3.7, attributes 170.0001 and 170.0602.

   Question: Do overpassing, underpassing, and interchange ramps have the
   route number assigned to them?
   Answer: The overpassing and underpassing codes are descriptive codes
   that are applied in addition to feature codes. The route numbers (in
   Missouri and Wisconsin they can also be letters) are applied to the
   features, not to the descriptor codes. Sections of roads that are
   overpassing or underpassing must carry the descriptive code for the
   route number or letter. Route numbers are assigned to ramps in
   interchanges whenever the ramp forms the only connection between two
   segments of the same numbered or lettered route. If there are two or
   more numbered or lettered routes and the ramp forms the only
   connection, all of the appropriate route numbers or letters are
   assigned to the ramp. This procedure for assigning route numbers has
   nothing to do with the class of the road.

   Question: Should we revise previously attributed road classes (other
   than what is designated on the road class lithograph) or only classify
   the roads we add during our update? Obviously, this concerns only the
   class 3 and 4 roads, because the class 1 and 2 roads are annotated on
   the provided lithograph.
   Answer: Yes, you can upgrade class 4 roads if they meet the condition
   of a class 3 road. Class 3 roads are hard-surface roads not included in
   class 1 or 2. They are regularly maintained, loose-surfaced or paved,
   and passable in all kinds of weather. Also included are important
   private roads, such as main industrial roads, that serve as connecting
   links to the regular road network. Within urban tint areas, roads are
   coded as class 3 roads if they are not included in class 1 or 2. Roads
   providing access to subdivisions generally should be class 3. Class 4
   roads are unimproved roads that generally are passable only in fair or
   dry weather and are used mostly for local traffic. Also included are
   driveways, regardless of construction. Class 4 roads must have a
   destination.

   The classification of roads shown in black was obtained by field
   inspection, and this classification generally should not be downgraded.
   However, roads may be downgraded for several reasons. Change is allowed
   when interpretation of the source clearly shows that the road varies
   from its previous attribution. There are two common cases where roads
   should be downgraded. The most important is when the classification is
   changed on the red-road guide. This involves downgrading what
   originally were class 1 and class 2 roads. The second case is when
   roads were added in purple during photorevision. Many driveways were
   added with solid road casings and then digitized as class 3; these
   should be downgraded to class 4.

   Question: Many photorevised driveways are symbolized with solid road
   casings. Should these be class 3?
   Answer: No, these should be attributed as class 4. (See the previous
   answer.)

   Question: Is it OK to upgrade a trail to another class?
   Answer: Trails are not revised during a limited update, but higher
   class roads can replace them. New roads can be added where trails were
   located if it is obvious that they are, in fact, roads.

   Question: When are attributes other than 170.201 and 170.205 used for
   class 1 and class 2 roads?
   Answer: Attribute codes that define road width, and whether or not a
   road is divided, need to be collected according to the Standards for
   1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 3:
   Transportation, ROAD, Attribute Information and the Standards for
   Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding, Section 3.7, attribute
   170.065, Road Width. Other attributes, such as route number, bypassing,
   and alternate, should be collected when shown on the road guide.

   Question: What does it mean when some red-road guides have highways
   with a penciled X through the road shield.
   Answer: The highway designation should not be collected if the road
   shield has been crossed off.

   Question: Should we collect trails on golf courses?
   Answer: No. Don't capture trails on golf courses. However, collect
   footbridges on golf courses if they are shown on the published map. New
   footbridges are added if they are greater than or equal to 50 feet
   long, even though the trails going to them are not collected.

   Question: When is the ramp code used?
   Answer: The code for ramp in interchange (170.402) is used only when
   the roads are grade separated. All other interchanges should carry the
   class of the higher road.

   See Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding,
   Section 3.7, attribute 170.0402.

   Question: Should a turn-around in a median be collected?
   Answer: Turn-arounds, or crossovers, should be collected only when they
   allow access to either lane of traffic (as from a side street or a
   driveway that is not long enough to show). This DOES NOT apply to the
   crossovers on interstates, and so on, that are used only for police,
   emergency, or maintenance vehicles. These are not collected.

   Where an intersecting road is involved, the crossover, or turn-around,
   carries the class of the road that it is crossing over. If the
   intersecting road is one class on one side of the divided road and a
   different class on the other, the crossover carries the higher class.

   Code turn-around roads to be consistent with any similar type road
   already portrayed on the graphic. When adding new turn-around roads not
   on the graphic, use the photographs to help determine the proper road
   classification. In most cases, these roads will be classified as class
   3 (170.209).

   Question: When there are traffic islands inside cul-de-sacs, how is the
   feature captured?
   Answer: In the past, the USGS would not scribe islands at the end of
   roads that were less than 40 feet wide. This criteria was used for many
   years and was discussed when the feature templates were written. The
   final decision was that dead-end roads with islands of any size would
   be captured as roads rather than cul-de-sacs. See Standards for
   1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 3:
   Transportation, CUL-DE-SAC, which states If CUL-DE-SAC is on a class 3
   road, and it does not contain an island, then capture.

   Question: At times we have been instructed to change old railroad
   grades to trails, but the specifications instruct us not to revise and
   to retain existing features. Which is correct?
   Answer: If the feature is labeled Old Railroad Grade on the existing
   map, it should be collected on the road file and attributed as a trail
   (170.211) and an old railroad grade (170.605). See the Standards for
   1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 3:
   Transportation, RAILWAY.

   Please note: We have recently been informed that we should be using the
   170.605 attribute. For the last several years, we have not been using
   it and had informed the contractors not to use it. It should not be
   used on projects begun before January 1, 2000, but it should be used on
   all new projects begun after that date.

  3.5      Public Land Survey System

   Question: Should we place a vertex on the quarter corner without a
   quarter corner marked on the lithograph?
   Answer: Changes in the azimuth along a survey line that are not
   represented by a recovered corner or point are collected as inflection
   points on the line. All other vertices are superfluous and should not
   be retained.

   Question: If we place a vertex on the quarter corner, do we also place
   a Found Quarter Corner node, even if there is not a Found Quarter
   Corner on the lithograph?
   Answer: No. Node attribute codes are collected only when a monumented
   survey corner or point has been recovered in the field and is
   identified on the lithograph. All other nodes are unattributed.

   Question: This question is in reference to Public Land Survey System
   (PLSS) coverages. There were no calls on the 100-percent review call
   sheets to collect the "location doubtful" section lines (thin red
   dashed lines on the lithograph). However, there is an approximate
   position attribute in the Core data dictionary. Should we collect these
   lines as approximate, or should they not to be shown? We hope the
   latter, as there are billions and billions of them!
   Answer: There are only two features symbolized with dashed red lines:
   fences and location doubtful section lines. Fence lines have a line
   weight of 0.003", dash length of 0.1" and dash space of 0.02". The
   section lines will follow the PLSS network (generally 1-mile squares)
   and define the section area feature. Fence lines do not have a pattern,
   do not define area features, and will be on the interior of sections.
   Fence lines on section lines are not shown on the map.

4.   MOST COMMON EDITING CALLS BY OVERLAY

   The following is a list of the most common errors that our validators
   are finding on vector data from all contractors.

  4.1      Hydrography

   Flow - If flow can be determined, it should be shown. If it cannot
   readily be determined, it should not be shown. Contours are an obvious
   indication of flow. Adjoining quadrangles can be checked for flow. If
   flow is shown on part of the drain, it should be shown on the whole
   drain. Streams ending at a sink may be an exception to this. The sink
   attribute 50.3 is used only when a sink symbol is shown on the graphic.

   Underpassing - The underpassing code (50.617) is not used on streams or
   ditches flowing under roads. It is used only in the rare instances
   where a flume, a siphon, or an aqueduct is present. Check where streams
   and canals/ditches cross. If the crossing exists on the old map, retain
   it as shown on the graphic. If it is new, one of three depictions is
   needed:
     * one simply underpasses the other,
     * one (usually the canal/ditch) passes over the other in a flume, or
       passes under or over the other in a siphon, or
     * the stream flows completely into the canal/ditch and is broken (no
       line is collected) for at least 60 feet downstream.

   Do not add new streams - New streams are not added during a limited
   update. Small segments are allowable when needed for edge joins. The
   streams should be complete as shown on the map unless there has been
   significant manmade change. Do not change existing natural streams
   unless there are obvious changes in the stream channel. Do not delete a
   stream unless it is clearly gone. See Standards for 1:24,000-Scale
   Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 2: Hydrography,
   STREAM/RIVER, Source Interpretation Guidelines, Revision - Limited.
   Natural stream patterns rarely change, except when the area has been
   developed. Occasionally a stream is plowed under, but this is uncommon.
   For the most part, water will still flow down the path of the natural
   stream. Do not delete unless it definitely looks like it has been
   removed.

   Single- and double-line streams - Streams are only double line if > 50
   feet in the shortest dimension. Streams more than 50 feet in the
   shortest dimension may be single line, on the basis of the special
   conditions listed in the Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line
   Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 2: Hydrography.

   Ditches - Ditches should be collected only if they are more than 10
   feet wide. Areas of very dense ditches should be generalized to show a
   representative pattern. Ditches must be 50 feet wide before they are
   shown as double line and given an area code. Streams that have been
   channelized to control flooding or erosion should not be attributed as
   ditches. They should remain as streams. See Standards for
   1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 2:
   Hydrography, CANAL/DITCH, Source Interpretation Guidelines.

   Interpolated water elevations - Interpolated elevations need to be
   removed from lakes. These include the interpolated code (50.619) and
   the water surface elevation code (51.nnn or 52.nnn).

   Missing point features - Don't forget to collect point features, such
   as springs, mile markers in rivers, gaging stations, wells, and
   windmills.

   Swamp inside swamp - The code for wooded (50.613) is no longer used.
   When it is removed, it often creates polygons of swamp within polygons
   of swamp. The line that separates the two polygons, and one of the area
   points, should be deleted.

   Swamp and Mangrove - Swamps and Mangrove should not be revised unless
   there is obvious manmade change. The two codes are not interchangeable.

   Vertical registration - Many times the overlays are not registered to
   one another. Swamp should be pulled back from class 3 and higher roads
   and railroads. Roads and railroads do not run through lakes.

   Reservoirs - Small rectangular farm ponds should not be classified as
   reservoirs.

   Geometrically shaped water bodies - If a new water body is geometric in
   shape and is not in a stream course (whether mapped as a stream or
   not), it may be a reservoir. See the Standards for 1:24,000-Scale
   Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 2: Hydrography,
   RESERVOIR, Source Interpretation Guidelines.

   Small ponds - Ponds that exist on the map should be shown, regardless
   of size, if they still exist.
   New ponds in Florida should be shown only if they are > 100 feet in the
   shortest dimension.
   Florida tasks were negotiated using an old standard. New ponds in other
   areas should be > 50 feet in the shortest dimension and > 10,000 square
   feet in area. (Change to Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line
   Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 2: Hydrography, LAKE/POND (2/23/99)

   Follow these general rules for the retention of small ponds:
     * If a perennial pond existed before, and there is still water in it,
       retain it and adjust the shoreline as appropriate to the level that
       prevails for the greater part of the year.
     * If a perennial pond existed before, and now there is no water in
       it, change it to intermittent.
     * If an intermittent pond existed before, the dam appears to be
       intact, and (or) the pond has not been replaced by other features
       (agricultural fields, residential housing, and so on), retain it as
       intermittent, regardless of whether there is water in it or not.
     * If an intermittent pond existed before and the dam clearly appears
       to be breached, delete the pond and continue the stream through, if
       there is one.
     * If an intermittent or perennial pond existed before but has been
       replaced by other features (agricultural fields, residential
       housing, and so on) and is clearly gone, delete the pond.

   Discussion Point: In arid or semiarid areas, intermittent ponds may be
   dry for years. Grass and shrubby vegetation may appear. This is OK. As
   long as the dam (usually an earthen dam or a levee-like structure) is
   intact and does not appear to have been breached, leave the pond as is.
   It is still a valid intermittent pond in this region. Perennial lakes
   may shrink considerably, particularly during periods of drought or late
   in the summer. This is common, and usually is ignored. Retain the pond
   and adjust the shoreline as appropriate to the level that prevails for
   the greater part of the year. If a perennial pond has dried up
   completely, it may be changed to intermittent, but it is not deleted.
   Do not delete small ponds. They can be hard to see, particularly in
   monoscopic revision. If the topography has not changed, they are most
   likely still there. Of course, if there has been development or real
   topographic changes, or if the original compilation no longer fits the
   current image, then revision may be necessary.

   Islands - Islands less than 60 feet in the shortest dimension should
   not be collected. The vector that delineates an island is coded as
   50.200, shoreline.

  4.2      Manmade Features

   Do not capture buildings that are not intended for human activity and
   are smaller than the average local dwelling (farm house or ranch
   house.) These would include storage sheds, detached garages, chicken
   coops, and so on. See Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs
   and Quadrangle Maps, Part 6: Built-up, BUILDING, Capture Conditions.

   Retain two-dimensional buildings from the previously published map if
   the same buildings still exists. Do not re-collect as one-dimensional
   buildings even if they are less than 100 feet in the longest axis. The
   minimum size for two-dimensional buildings has changed with time, and
   it is not economical to convert existing buildings.

   Check for built-up area outlines that do not, but should, follow linear
   features, such as roads ditches, railroads, and so on. Use a
   1:24,000-scale plot as a guide to what is noticeable.

   Retain oil and gas wells, even if they are not photoidentifiable, and
   even if their associated roads, tanks, and other structures are
   deleted. These are even retained in new or expanded built-up areas.

   Do not retain intricate or disturbed surface areas. When one is
   encountered during a limited update, it will be reclassified as the
   feature it truly represents (that is, mine, disposal site, and so on.).
   If the true feature cannot be determined, delete it.

   Pits and Mines - Collect pit or mine outlines to the edge of the area
   of disturbance, including storage areas, buildings, roads, and so on.
   Clear pits or mine areas from ponds inside the pit or mine. Be careful
   to avoid collecting disturbed ground as pits and mines in developing
   areas, such as residential neighborhoods. Intricate surface areas from
   previous mapping must be reclassified (sometimes as pits or mines, as
   appropriate) or deleted.

   Mobile home parks Previously existing or new mobile homes may be
   collected as built-up area. See the Standards for 1:24,000-Scale
   Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 6: Built-up, MOBILE HOME
   PARK.

  4.3      Miscellaneous Transportation

   Attributed lines around airports and substations - These lines should
   be unattributed. The area carries the attribute.

   Deletion of transmission lines and pipelines - Transmission lines
   running parallel to and within 500 feet of another linear feature for
   more than 100 feet are not collected. Do not collect maintenance roads
   under transmission lines. Roads that are intended to serve only the
   power line are not as important as the power line. We have seen many
   instances where the road has been collected and the power line deleted.

   Transmission lines and substations - Run transmission lines up to, but
   not through, substations.

   Transmission Lines - Do not capture transmission lines that have single
   wooden poles and (or) are not major cross-country lines unless they
   have landmark significance. Do not capture transmission lines that are
   less than 500 feet from a parallel road, railroad, or other linear
   feature. Transmission lines in DLG-3 data are not comprehensive
   networks. They are captured for orientation purposes only, so fragments
   are allowed. See Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and
   Quadrangle Maps, Part 6: Built-up, TRANSMISSION LINE, Capture
   Conditions. In the past, the distance from a transmission line to a
   parallel feature was much smaller (100 feet), so there are some
   transmission lines on the old maps that are less than 500 feet from the
   feature.

  4.4      Railroads

   Underpassing/Overpassing - When a railroad overpasses another feature,
   it must be at least 240 feet long before it is coded as a bridge.
   Bridge ticks must then be collected. When a railroad underpasses
   another feature (railroad, road, and so on) it must be coded as
   underpassing (180.605). The vector should be broken on both sides of
   the overpassing feature.

   Abandoned, Dismantled - If the feature is labeled "Old Railroad Grade"
   on the existing map, it should be shown on the road file and attributed
   as a trail (170.211) and old railroad grade (170.605). Please note: We
   have recently been informed that we should be using the 170.605
   attribute. For the last several years we have not been using it and had
   informed the contractors not to use it. It should not be used on
   projects begun before January 1, 2000, but it should be used on all new
   projects begun after that date.

   If a feature is labeled Dismantled Railroad, it should be left off the
   DLG.

   If a railroad is labeled Abandoned Railroad, it should be attributed as
   railroad.

   If there is solid evidence such as missing trestles that a railroad
   shown on the map no longer exists, do not collect it on either the road
   or the railroad DLG.

   Railroad yards - Six or more tracks make up a railroad yard and should
   be coded as such. If the yard has been reduced, it may need to be
   removed and the individual tracks collected.

   Double track VS siding - The attribute code for siding is used only to
   identify short sidings that are used for passing, temporary storage, or
   the loading of railroad cars.

   Missing sidings - Sidings shown on the map should be included in the
   DLG unless they no longer exist. New sidings should be added.

  4.5      Roads And Trails

   Over-compilation of roads - Follow the definitions and capture
   conditions in the
   Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps,
   Part 3: Transportation, ROAD.

   Typically, USGS topographic maps depict only the public road grid, with
   exceptions made for clarity, continuity, and logical access to
   map-worthy features. There are many visible roads, scars, and trails
   that are not mapped because they are too short, cannot carry vehicular
   traffic, give access only to private corners of agricultural/ranch
   property, or are used only for maintenance (service roads) along
   property lines or private canals/ditches, railroads, transmission lines
   and so on.

   As a general rule, class 4 roads leading to mapped features or
   providing the only access to a remote area are shown. However, where
   two such roads lead to the same feature in approximately the same
   direction, only the better road is shown.

   Another consideration is the amount of cultural detail in an area,
   particularly one with a dense network of unimproved roads. To map such
   an area legibly, you should select the better or more direct roads and
   omit the others. However, in undeveloped areas where travel routes are
   few and, therefore, important, all roads that may be useful are mapped.

   Class 3 roads - Many roads were collected as Class 3 and either meet
   the definition of class 4, but do not meet the capture conditions, or
   do not even meet the definition of class 4. Follow the definitions and
   capture conditions as outlined in the Standards for 1:24,000-Scale
   Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 3: Transportation, ROAD.

   Class 3 divided not being coded properly - Class 3 roads that are
   divided need to be attributed correctly using either the 170.217 or
   170.218 codes. Medians must be equal to or greater than 20 feet wide,
   and overall road width must be equal to or greater than 100 feet for
   lanes to be separated.

   Private drives shown as class 3 - Private driveways are class 4
   regardless of construction. Some existing driveways shown in purple may
   have solid casings. These should still be attributed as class 4.

   Class 4 roads - Add a class 4 road only if it goes to a mapped feature
   or is the only access to a remote area. Do not add small Class 4 road
   end loops.

   As a general rule, class 4 roads from previously published maps lose
   their relative importance in expanding urban areas. The newer class 3
   roads take precedence. In these cases, delete the class 4 roads that
   are no longer serving the local road network. Keep them only if they
   access other mapped features or are the only access to large areas of
   the map. Be especially aware if the previously published class 4 road
   was printed in purple.

   Minor roads in multifamily complexes - Avoid collecting minor roads
   accessing the common parking areas of apartment and townhouse
   (multifamily) complexes. In general, only the main roads in these areas
   meet the definition of class 3 road. Roads accessing individual houses
   and mobile homes may be collected if they meet capture conditions.

   Do not add new trails. Retain existing trails. - Do not replace a
   deleted railroad with a trail. See Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital
   Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 3: Transportation, TRAIL, Source
   Interpretation Guidelines, Revision - Limited.

   Shape of highways - The shape of highways should be appropriate to the
   scale of the mapping. Avoid angular or rough appearance if, in fact,
   the straight and curved parts of the road are smooth and possibly
   engineered.

   Bridges are shown that are too short - less than 240 feet, Bridge ticks
   not shown or in the wrong location. - The node for the bridge ticks
   should be collected at the point where the structure meets the ground.
   See the Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital Line Graphs and Quadrangle
   Maps, Part 3: Transportation, BRIDGE, and the Standards for Digital
   Line Graphs, Part 3: Attribute Coding, Section 3.7, attribute 170.0001.

   Old Railroad Grades attributed incorrectly - If the feature is labeled
   "Old Railroad Grade" on the existing map, it should be collected on the
   road file and attributed as a trail (170.211) and old railroad grade
   (170.605). Please note: We have recently been informed that we should
   be using the 170.605 attribute. For the last several years we have not
   been using it and had informed the contractors not to use it. It should
   not be used on projects undertaken before January 1, 2000, but it
   should be used on all new projects begun after that date.

   If a feature is labeled Dismantled Railroad, it should be left off the
   DLG.

   If a railroad is labeled Abandoned Railroad, it should be attributed as
   railroad.

   If there is solid evidence, for example missing trestles, that a
   railroad or an abandoned railroad shown on the map no longer exists,
   then do not collect it on either the road or the railroad DLG.

   Crossovers on divided highways attributed incorrectly - Crossovers
   should carry the same class as the intersecting road. If the road is
   one class on one side of the divided highway and another class on the
   other side, then the crossover carries the attribute of the higher
   class.

   Ramps - The code for ramp in interchange (170.402) is used only when
   the roads are grade separated. All other interchanges should carry the
   attribute of the higher class road.

   Widths of roads and medians - Class 1 and 2 roads are often being
   collected as 170.201 or 170.205, when one of the other attributes for
   class 1 or class 2 should be used. Attribute codes for road widths need
   to be collected according to the Standards for 1:24,000-Scale Digital
   Line Graphs and Quadrangle Maps, Part 3: Transportation, ROAD,
   Attribute Information and the Standards for Digital Line Graphs, Part
   3: Attribute Coding, Section 3.7, attribute 170.065x, Road Width.
   Medians must be equal to or greater than 20 feet wide, and overall
   highway width equal to or greater than 100 feet for lanes to be
   separated.

   Vertical registration - Many times the overlays are not registered to
   one another. Swamp should be pulled back from class 3 and higher roads
   and railroads. Roads and railroads do not pass through lakes.

   Maintenance roads under powerlines - Do not collect maintenance roads
   under powerlines. Roads that are intended only to serve the power line
   are not as important as the power line. We have seen many instances
   where the road has been collected and the power line deleted.

   Misshaped features - There have been many cases where too few vertices
   were used to adequately represent the feature. There have been cases
   where the azimuth of the vector varies from the DOQ's.
     __________________________________________________________________

                     | Search | USGS | Mapping | MCMC |
     __________________________________________________________________

   U.S. Department of the Interior
   U.S. Geological Survey
   1400 Independence Road, Rolla, MO 65401
   URL: http://mcmcweb.er.usgs.gov/vector/index.html
   Last modified: Thursday, 17-May-2001 18:22:21 CDT
   Maintainer: mcmcweb@mailrmon1.er.usgs.gov
   USGS Privacy Statement
