http://www.azd.uscourts.gov/azd/courtinfo.nsf/CDC9417CB74C73440725663E0002DCB8/30EB49DFA8F0DBB8082567F6007442A3?OpenDocument

   [actn020.gif] Home [actn142.gif] Back to List
     __________________________________________________________________

   District of Arizona
   Local Rules

   Rule Name:               Chapter:                   Last Modified:
   Rule 2.11 -- Arbitration RULE 2 - CIVIL PROCEEDINGS 09/99
                                                       Current as of: 01/02/2002

                                  Rule 2.11
                                 Arbitration

   (a) Statement of Purpose and Scope of Authority. Pursuant to 28 U.S.C
   §654-658 et seq., the United States District Court for the District of
   Arizona has established a court-annexed, voluntary, non-binding
   arbitration program. The intent of this alternative dispute resolution
   program is to provide for the just, efficient, and economical
   administration of justice, preserving each party's right to trial.
   An advisory committee may be constituted to assist the Chief Judge in
   aiding the development, implementation and continued control and
   support of the arbitration program.
   (b) Jurisdiction. Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §652, all civil cases filed
   after February 1, 1992, shall be referred to arbitration, if the relief
   sought consists only of money damages not in excess of $150,000,
   exclusive of interest and costs. For purposes of this Rule, the Court
   shall presume damages are $150,000 or less unless the parties certify
   that damages exceed such amount.
   (1) Exclusions. Cases excluded from arbitration are those which are
   either:
   (A) 28 U.S.C. §1343 civil rights, 28 U.S.C. §1346(a) tax refunds, 29
   U.S.C. §626 ADEA, 29 U.S.C. §1132 ERISA, 42 U.S.C. §405g social
   security, 42 U.S.C. §2000(e)5(f) Title VII; class actions, or cases
   pending on a multi-district docket; or
   (B) actions based on an alleged violation of a right secured by the
   Constitution of the United States; or
   (C) cases in which a prisoner appearing pro se is a party; or
   (D) actions seeking equitable or injunctive relief; or
   (E) actions filed against six (6) or more individually named
   defendants; or
   (F) actions assigned to the Expedited Track under the Differentiated
   Case Management Rule.
   (2) Exemption by Court. The Court, at any time, may exempt, sua sponte,
   cases in which the objectives of arbitration would not be realized
   because:
   (A) the case involves complex or novel legal issues;
   (B) legal issues predominate over factual issues; or
   (C) other good cause.
   (3) Cases Not Otherwise Within Jurisdiction. Cases other than those
   defined in paragraph (b) may be referred to arbitration by the assigned
   District Judge or Magistrate Judge, sua sponte, and may proceed upon
   the consent of all parties. The District Judge or Magistrate Judge
   shall advise the parties of the opportunity to submit an action for
   arbitration by consent. If such consent is not achieved, the District
   Judge or Magistrate Judge to whom the action is assigned shall not be
   advised of the identity of any party or attorney who opposed the use of
   arbitration.
   (4) Consent. Upon consent of and stipulation by the parties, the Court
   may refer any civil action to non-binding or binding arbitration.
   (A) Non-binding arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with this
   Rule.
   (B) Binding arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the
   Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. §1, et seq.). The order of reference
   to binding arbitration shall specify the agreement(s) of the parties
   with respect to conduct of the arbitration and payment of the
   arbitrator.
   (C) Parties who consent to non-binding or binding arbitration shall
   certify, personally or through their counsel, that they have read this
   Rule and 28 U.S.C. §654-658 et seq. A party's consent to arbitration
   shall not be made known to any District Judge or Magistrate Judge until
   all parties in the action have joined in the consent.
   (5) Referral to Private Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedures. In
   lieu of arbitration under this Rule, the parties to any civil action
   may elect private consensual alternative dispute resolution procedures
   as agreed upon in writing by and between those parties. The written
   stipulation for referral to private consensual alternative dispute
   resolution procedures shall set forth the agreement of the parties with
   respect to the conduct of such proceeding(s). Cases referred to private
   consensual alternative dispute resolution procedures which have been
   pending before the arbitrator for more than twelve (12) months may be
   dismissed without prejudice by the District Judge or Magistrate Judge
   for lack of prosecution following notice to all parties by the clerk
   that good cause must be shown why such dismissal should not be ordered.
   (c) Referral to Arbitration. Cases determined eligible pursuant to
   paragraph (b) shall be referred to arbitration when the case is at
   issue; that is, when all defendants have either filed an answer or the
   time has expired within which a defendant must file an answer, as
   prescribed in Rule 12 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. In the
   event additional parties have been joined in the action, the case shall
   not be referred to arbitration until an answer has been filed by all
   such parties who have been served with process and are not in default.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, motion to dismiss the complaint, motion
   for judgment on the pleadings, motion to join necessary parties, or
   motion for summary judgment, if the motion was filed during a time
   period specified by the district court, shall be heard by the assigned
   District Judge or Magistrate Judge prior to such referral.
   (1) Default. Rule 55, Fed.R.Civ.P., and not this Rule, shall govern all
   proceedings regarding the default of any, or all, defendant(s).
   (2) Notification. Within twenty-one (21) days after the case is at
   issue, the arbitration clerk shall send a Notice of Referral to all
   parties.
   (3) Withdrawal from Arbitration. At any time during the twenty-one (21)
   day period following the date shown on the Notice of Referral, any
   party may opt-out of the arbitration program provided by this Rule by
   submitting to the arbitration clerk a Notice of Withdrawal from
   Arbitration, advising that the action is withdrawn from arbitration.
   The Notice of Withdrawal from Arbitration must include a certification
   that the party has read this Rule, and 28 U.S.C. §651 et seq. The
   notice shall be submitted under seal with both the original and a copy
   placed in an envelope directed to Deputy Clerk, Arbitration.
   (4) Failure to Submit Timely Notice of Withdrawal from Arbitration. A
   party's failure to submit a timely Notice of Withdrawal from
   Arbitration shall constitute that party's consent to arbitrate under
   this Rule. A Notice of Withdrawal from Arbitration submitted to the
   arbitration clerk after the twenty-one (21) day opt-out period is null
   and void. The arbitration clerk shall refuse to accept any such
   untimely notice and shall return such notice to the submitting party
   indicating thereon that the notice was rejected as untimely.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, after the expiration of the twenty-one
   (21) day opt-out period, a party may seek relief from a referral to
   arbitration under this Rule by submitting to the arbitrator a Motion
   for Relief from Referral to Arbitration. The arbitrator shall not grant
   such motion except for good cause shown.
   (d) Selection of Arbitrators. The arbitration hearing shall be held
   before a single arbitrator. Unless the parties stipulate to an
   arbitrator pursuant to subparagraph (d)(3) below, the arbitrator shall
   be chosen by the arbitration clerk randomly from among the lawyers who
   have been certified as arbitrators pursuant to paragraph (e), and whose
   case type preference matches that of the nature of suit as noted on
   Civil Cover Sheet (JS 44).
   (1) Acceptance, Declination, or Disqualification of Arbitrator. Upon
   selection, the arbitration clerk shall inform the arbitrator of
   selection, and send a copy of all the pleadings. Within seven (7) days
   of receipt of the Notice of Selection, the arbitrator shall mail to the
   arbitration clerk either a Letter of Acceptance or a Letter of
   Declination or Disqualification. An arbitrator selected is subject to
   the disqualification rules set forth in 28 U.S.C. §455, but may decline
   to serve for any reason. Upon disqualification or declination, the
   arbitration clerk shall select a new arbitrator. Such re-selection
   shall not revive a peremptory strike option, if such option has been
   exercised pursuant to subparagraph (d)(2) following.
   (2) Peremptory Strikes. The arbitration clerk shall notify all parties
   of the arbitrator selected and shall provide all parties with the
   arbitrator's biographical information. Each side shall have ten (10)
   days to exercise a peremptory strike. If a peremptory strike has been
   exercised by one side, the arbitration clerk shall select another
   arbitrator. The side not exercising the strike in the first instance
   may exercise such peremptory strike of the second arbitrator assigned.
   Each side is limited to one peremptory strike during the pendency of
   the case.
   (3) Selection by Stipulation. The parties may select an arbitrator,
   who, upon stipulation by the parties and approval of the assigned
   District Judge or Magistrate Judge, may be so appointed. An arbitrator
   selected by stipulation need not be certified pursuant to paragraph (e)
   and, in such cases, may be appointed, upon joint application of the
   parties, pro hac vice by the assigned District Judge or Magistrate
   Judge. An arbitrator selected by stipulation shall be subject to all
   provisions of this Rule (including those relating to compensation), and
   shall take the Arbitrator's Oath.
   (4) Notice of Appointment. After expiration of the foregoing period, or
   upon selection of arbitrator by stipulation, the arbitrator shall be
   appointed and a Notice of Appointment entered, copies of which shall be
   mailed to the arbitrator and all parties.
   (e) Certification of Arbitrators. The Chief Judge shall certify as many
   arbitrators as determined to be necessary and the Clerk of Court shall
   maintain a separate roster of arbitrators for each of two geographical
   divisions, Phoenix/Prescott and Tucson, who are so certified to hear
   and determine actions under this Rule.
   (1) Eligibility. To be eligible for certification by the Court, an
   attorney:
   (A) must have been admitted and qualified to practice for not less than
   five (5) years,
   (B) must be a member in good standing of the bar of any United States
   District Court, and
   (C) must either (i) have committed, for not less than five (5) years,
   50% or more of his/her professional time to matters involving
   litigation, or (ii) have had substantial experience serving as a
   "neutral" in dispute resolution proceedings, or (iii) have had
   substantial experience negotiating consensual resolutions to complex
   problems.
   (2) Experience/preference designations. Any attorney who applies for
   certification as an arbitrator shall specify legal area(s) of expertise
   or preference according to the nature of suit codes listed on Civil
   Cover Sheet (JS 44). In addition, each applicant shall provide
   biographical information (not to exceed ten (10) typewritten lines) to
   be included in the notice to parties of selection of arbitrator.
   (3) Exemption from other Court appointment. Those attorneys who are
   eligible for selection as arbitrators and whose names appear on the
   roster maintained by the Clerk of Court shall be exempted from the list
   of attorneys from which counsel are appointed to represent indigent
   criminal defendants pursuant to the Criminal Justice Act, 18 U.S.C.
   §3006(A), unless they request to remain eligible for such appointment
   or otherwise agree to accept such appointment.
   (4) Oath. Each person shall, upon certification as an arbitrator, take
   the oath or affirmation prescribed in 28 U.S.C. §453 and shall complete
   any training which may be offered by the Court.
   (5) Withdrawal. Any person whose name appears on the roster maintained
   in the clerk's office may ask at any time to have his or her name
   removed or, if selected as an arbitrator, decline to serve but remain
   on the roster.
   (f) Authority of Arbitrators. Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. §655, an arbitrator
   to whom an action is referred shall have, for that specific action
   within this judicial district, the authority to:
   (1) hear all motions, including dispositive motions;

   (2) schedule and conduct arbitration hearings;
       (3) administer oaths and affirmations;

   (4) impose reasonable rules and issue orders necessary for the fair and
   efficient conduct of the hearing; and

   (5) make awards.

   (g) Compensation of Arbitrators. The arbitrator shall be paid $250 for
   each day of the arbitration hearing, as that term is defined in
   subparagraph (i)(1), or $250 per case, whichever is greater. When the
   arbitrator files the arbitration award, the arbitrator also should
   submit to the arbitration clerk a claim on the form prescribed by the
   Clerk of the Court for payment by the Administrative Office of the
   United States Courts of compensation and out-of-pocket expenses
   necessarily incurred in the performance of the duties under this Rule.
   No reimbursement shall be made for the cost of office or other space
   for the hearing. In the event a case settles within two (2) days of any
   scheduled arbitration hearing, an arbitrator may submit a claim to the
   arbitration clerk for compensation in the amount of $50 plus expenses
   reasonably incurred, and shall represent that prior to the settlement
   the arbitrator had been actively preparing for the arbitration hearing.
   (h) Pre-hearing Exchange of Information; Discovery; Notice of
   Settlement.
   (1) Arbitrator. Upon entry of the Notice appointing the arbitrator, the
   arbitration clerk shall send to the arbitrator a copy of all the
   pleadings, papers, notices, and orders (including said Notice of
   appointment) filed or lodged in the action. Thereafter, each party
   shall submit to the arbitrator all subsequent pleadings and papers,
   including the statement required by subparagraph (h)(2) below.
   (2) Pre-Hearing Statement. No later than ten (10) days prior to the
   hearing date, each party shall serve on the arbitrator, and all other
   parties, a pre-hearing statement which sets forth for such party the
   following information:
   (A) identification of the issues to be determined;
   (B) identification of all witnesses to be called at arbitration
   hearing; and
   (C) identification of all exhibits to be presented at the hearing.
   Each party may, at the same time, serve a pre-hearing brief. Neither
   the pre-hearing statement nor any pre-hearing briefs shall be filed
   with the Court.
   (3) Discovery. If pursued, discovery shall be conducted in accordance
   with the applicable rules of procedure and shall be completed within
   120 days of Notice referring the case to arbitration.
   (4) Notice of Settlement. The parties shall promptly report settlement
   of the action to the arbitration clerk and to the arbitrator assigned
   to the action and shall file an appropriate notice of settlement with
   the Clerk of the Court, with a copy to the arbitration clerk. A notice
   of settlement shall have the effect of terminating the arbitration
   phase of the proceeding. Thereafter, the case shall proceed in
   accordance with the rules of civil procedure.
   (i) Arbitration Hearing.
   (1) Scheduling. The arbitration hearing shall take place on the date
   and time established by the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall inform the
   arbitration clerk of the location, date, and time of the hearing; the
   arbitration clerk will prepare and send to all parties a Notice Setting
   Hearing. The arbitrator is authorized to change the date and time of
   the hearing provided the hearing is commenced within a time period
   specified by the district court, but in no event later than 180 days
   after the filing of an answer, except that the arbitration proceeding
   shall not, in the absence of the consent of the parties, commence until
   30 days after the disposition by the district court of any motion to
   dismiss the complaint, motion for judgment on the pleadings, motion to
   join necessary parties, or motion for summary judgment, if the motion
   was filed during a time period specified by the district court. The
   180-day and 30-day periods specified in the preceding sentence may be
   modified by the court for good cause shown. The arbitrator shall
   provide the arbitration clerk with a copy of any notice which schedules
   or continues the arbitration hearing. If the arbitrator is unable to
   commence the arbitration hearing within the time prescribed above, the
   arbitrator, or any party, may request that the District Judge or
   Magistrate Judge extend the time period. For purposes of this Rule, an
   "arbitration hearing" is defined to include (a) any proceeding before
   the arbitrator on any dispositive motion which addresses some or all of
   the claims at issue, and/or (b) any evidentiary proceeding on the
   merits of the case.
   (2) Location. The hearing shall take place at a neutral location which
   is convenient for and agreed to by the arbitrator and the parties. If a
   suitable location can not be found, the arbitrator may request the
   arbitration clerk to make a hearing room available in a United States
   Courthouse facility.
   (3) Failure to Appear or Participate in Good Faith at the Arbitration
   Hearing. An arbitration hearing may proceed in the absence of any party
   who, after notice, fails to appear. In the event a party fails to
   appear or participate in good faith at an arbitration hearing, the
   arbitrator shall make that determination and shall support such
   determination with specific written findings set forth in the
   arbitration award to be filed with the arbitration clerk. Failure to
   appear or to participate in good faith at an arbitration hearing which
   has been set in accordance with subparagraph (i)(1) shall constitute a
   waiver of the right to appeal absent a showing of good cause. If the
   District Judge or Magistrate Judge finds that further proceedings
   before the arbitrator are appropriate, the case shall be remanded to
   the assigned arbitrator.
   Individual parties and authorized representatives of corporate or
   governmental parties must attend arbitration unless excused by the
   arbitrator for good cause shown.

   (4) Each party shall have the right to cross-examine witnesses.

   (5) Witnesses. Rule 45 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure shall
   apply to subpoenas for attendance of witnesses and the production of
   documentary evidence at the hearing before the arbitrator. Testimony at
   the hearing shall be under oath or affirmation.
   (6) Evidence. The Federal Rules of Evidence shall be used as guides to
   the admissibility of evidence. Copies or photographs of all exhibits,
   except exhibits intended solely for impeachment, must be marked for
   identification and delivered to adverse parties at least ten (10) days
   prior to the hearing and the arbitrator shall receive such exhibits
   into evidence without formal proof unless counsel has been notified at
   least five (5) days prior to the hearing that the adverse party intends
   to raise an issue concerning the authenticity of the exhibit. The
   arbitrator may refuse to receive into evidence any exhibit, a copy or
   photograph of which had not been delivered prior to the hearing to the
   adverse party, as provided herein.
   (7) Ex Parte Communication. There shall be no ex parte communication
   between the arbitrator and any counsel or party on any matter touching
   the action except for purposes of scheduling or continuing any hearing,
   including the arbitration hearing.
   (8) Record of Proceedings. A party may have a recording and transcript
   made of the arbitration hearing at the party's expense. In the absence
   of agreement of the parties and except as related to impeachment of a
   witness, no transcript of the proceedings shall be admissible in
   evidence at any subsequent trial de novo of the action.
   (9) Arbitrator's Report. The arbitrator is required to prepare a
   written record of place, time, date and presence of parties and
   counsel, and certify mailing of the award to all parties.
   (j) Arbitration Award and Judgment.
   (1) Notice of Arbitration Decision; Attorneys' Fees and Related
   Non-Taxable Expenses; Filing of Arbitration Award. Within ten (10) days
   after completion of the arbitration hearing, as that term is defined in
   subparagraph (i)(1), the arbitrator shall file a notice of arbitration
   decision with the arbitration clerk, and on the same day shall mail or
   deliver copies thereof to all parties or their counsel. Within ten (10)
   days of the filing of the notice of arbitration decision, the
   prevailing party shall submit to the arbitrator a proposed form of
   arbitration award, and motion for award of attorneys' fees and related
   non-taxable expenses, if such fees and expenses are recoverable,
   together with a detailed and itemized statement of such fees and
   expenses. A notice of application to have costs taxed and the statement
   of costs, as provided by Local Rule 2.19, shall not be filed until
   after the entry of judgment. Within five (5) days of receipt of the
   proposed form of arbitration award the opposing party may submit
   objections to the arbitrator. Within ten (10) days of receipt of the
   objections, the arbitrator shall pass upon the objections, if any, and
   shall file the arbitration award with the arbitration clerk, and on the
   same day shall mail or deliver copies thereof to all parties or their
   counsel. The arbitration clerk shall file under seal the notice of
   arbitration decision and the arbitration award.
   (2) Contents of Arbitration Award. The arbitration award shall be in
   writing, shall be signed by the arbitrator, and shall:
   (A) identify the prevailing party or parties and the party or parties
   against whom the award is rendered;
   (B) state whether the award was entered following a hearing on a
   dispositive motion or following an evidentiary hearing on the merits;
   and
   (C) if awarded, state the precise monetary amount of the award,
   including the amount of any attorneys' fees and non-taxable expenses,
   and describe the nature of any other relief granted.
   Except as provided in subparagraph (i)(3) above, the arbitration award
   need not state factual findings or legal conclusions.
   (3) Limitations on Award. The amount of the award, if any, is not
   limited to the sum stated in this paragraph (b) if the arbitrator
   determines that an award in excess of that amount is just and is in
   keeping with the evidence and the law.
   (4) Award Entered as Judgment. In accordance with 28 U.S.C. §657, the
   award shall be entered as the judgment of the Court after the
   expiration of the thirty (30) day time period for demanding a trial de
   novo has expired as hereinafter provided. The judgment so entered shall
   be subject to the same provisions of law, and shall have the same force
   and effect as a judgment of the Court in a civil action in accordance
   with Rule 58 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, except that it
   shall not be the subject of appeal.
   (5) Sealing of Award. The contents of any arbitration award shall not
   be made known to any District Judge or Magistrate Judge who might be
   assigned to preside at the trial of the case or to rule on potentially
   case dispositive motions
   (A) until the Court has entered final judgment in the action or the
   action has been otherwise terminated, or
   (B) except for purposes of preparing the report required by §903(b) of
   the Judicial Improvements and Access to Justice Act.
   (6) Multiple Claims. In an action involving multiple claims and
   parties, any separable part of an arbitration award may be the subject
   of a trial de novo if the aggrieved party makes a timely demand for
   same pursuant to paragraph (k) below. If the aggrieved party files a
   timely demand pursuant to paragraph (k) below, that part of the
   arbitration award shall not become part of the final judgment as
   described in subparagraph (j)(3) above.
   (k) Trial de novo. Within thirty (30) days after the arbitration award
   is filed with the arbitration clerk, any party may file a written
   demand for a trial de novo. A copy of such demand shall be served by
   the party making such demand upon all parties. Withdrawal of a demand
   for a trial de novo shall not reinstate the arbitrator's award and the
   case shall proceed as if it had not been arbitrated.
   (1) Restoration of Case to Docket. Upon the timely filing of a demand
   for a trial de novo, the action shall be restored to the regular docket
   of the Court and treated for all purposes as if it had not been
   referred to arbitration. Any right of trial by jury which a party would
   otherwise have shall be preserved.
   (2) Disclosure of Arbitration Matters. At the trial de novo, the Court
   shall not admit any evidence that there has been an arbitration
   hearing, the nature or amount of the award, or any other matter
   concerning the conduct of the arbitration proceeding, unless the
   evidence would otherwise be admissible in the Court under the Federal
   Rules of Evidence or the parties have otherwise stipulated.
   (3) Disclosure of Arbitration Award. To make certain that the
   arbitrator's award is not considered by the Court or jury either
   before, during or after the trial de novo, the arbitration clerk shall,
   upon the filing of the arbitration award, enter onto the docket only
   the date and "arbitration award filed" and nothing more, and shall
   retain the arbitrator's award in a separate file in the Clerk's office.
   In the event demand for trial de novo is not timely filed, the
   arbitration clerk shall enter the award on the docket and place it in
   the case file.
   (4) Deposit. Upon filing a demand for trial de novo, the party filing
   such demand, other than the United States or its agencies or officers,
   shall, unless permitted to proceed in forma pauperis, deposit with the
   arbitration clerk a sum equal to the total fees paid or payable to the
   arbitrator. The sum deposited shall be returned to the party demanding
   a trial de novo in the event that party obtains a final judgment,
   exclusive of interest and costs, which is more favorable than the
   arbitration award. In the event that the party demanding a trial de
   novo does not obtain a more favorable result, the sum deposited shall
   be paid to the Treasury of the United States.
   (5) Any party aggrieved by the imposition of sanctions imposed by the
   arbitrator may obtain de novo review thereof by the District Judge or
   Magistrate Judge by filing a motion for review within 30 days of the
   entry of such sanctions. In the event review is sought, in whole or in
   part, of an arbitrator's award of monetary sanctions, then at the time
   the motion for review is filed the aggrieved party, other than the
   United States or its agencies or officers, also shall deposit with the
   arbitration clerk a sum equal to such monetary sanction.
   (6) At any time after the filing of a demand for trial de novo, the
   parties or counsel may, with the consent of the arbitrator, confer with
   the arbitrator as to the strengths and weaknesses of their cases. Any
   fee which may be charged by the arbitrator for this conference shall be
   paid by the requesting party or parties. This conference must be held
   with all sides represented; ex parte communication with the arbitrator
   is prohibited.
   (l) Cases Pending. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Rule, each
   District Judge or Magistrate Judge may select cases from his/her docket
   currently in process and notify counsel of the availability of the
   arbitration program.
   [0.DB6?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
   File for Download:
   File Type: WordPerfect 6,7,8

   Attachment: [0.118C?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]

   File Size: 33 KBytes

   [0.1520?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
