http://www.nypa.gov/html/marcy.html

   [ISMAP:loched3.gif]-Top-level navigation bar (see also text links at
   bottom of page): New York Power Authority home page; About NYPA; News;
   Our Locations; Come Visit Us
   [spacer.gif] [ISMAP:locnavmar.gif]-"Our Locations" navigation bar (see
   text links at bottom of page)

   [spacer.gif]


   News:

   April 13 - Innovation at NYPA's Marcy Energy Center Improves New York
   Transmission System


   [spacer.gif]
   The Frederick R. Clark Energy Center
   [aborule.gif]

   The New York Power Authority owns and maintains an "energy highway" of
   more than 1,400 circuit-miles of high voltage transmission lines. Our
   power lines are part of a statewide network that transports electricity
   instantaneously to meet consumer demand.

   Clark Energy Center photo The hub of our power transmission facilities—
   controlling electricity flow from the Power Authority's 21 power
   projects and from external sources, including Canada—is the Frederick
   R. Clark Energy Center in Marcy, near Utica in Central New York. The
   Energy Center also links the Power Authority to the state's seven
   investor-owned utilities through the New York Power Pool's control
   center near Albany.

   Opened in 1980, the site includes our Energy Control Center, which
   plays a critical role in coordinating our transmission system and
   helping us to keep the lights—and your computer—turned on.

   The Energy Control Center—NYPA's command station
   At the Energy Control Center (ECC), we monitor Power Authority
   facilities statewide and dispatch electricity from our generating
   projects around the clock.

   Every six seconds, we exchange information with the New York
   Independent System Operator (ISO) and the other transmission owners in
   New York.   The NYISO, working with the transmission owners, is
   responsible for the reliability of power throughout the state.

   The ECC provides load and generation data to the NYISO's Market
   Information System, which provides a statewide market for the sale and
   purchase of electricity.  The ECC also accounts for NYPA's energy sales
   and purchases to the NYISO's market and our customers.

   Our dispatchers take pride in staying on top of the roller coaster of
   changing demand. At the Power Authority's ECC, our goal is to lower
   energy costs to New York State consumers by insuring system reliability
   and providing dependable and secure transmission service.

   Marcy—home of high voltage transmission
   The 85-acre Marcy Substation also located here is one of the state’s
   largest, capable of handling more than three million kilowatts of
   electricity. It is maintained by more than 100 engineers, technicians,
   electricians, mechanics, linemen and administrative staffers.

   Marcy is at the center of our giant power network, serving as the
   terminal for the state's highest-voltage transmission line, the Power
   Authority's 765-kilovolt (kv) line from the Canadian border. This
   155-mile line carries cheap hydropower from Quebec to Central New York,
   where it is then rerouted to the downstate area or wherever it is
   needed most.

   Power generally flows downstate from Marcy on three outgoing 345-kv
   lines, including one of our newest, the 200-mile Marcy-South line,
   which ends at East Fishkill in Dutchess County.

   High wire training at Clark
   Linemen maintain all the transmission towers and lines at Marcy. Among
   their many talents, these high-altitude acrobats use
   "hotsticks"—fiberglass poles up to 28 feet long—to repair live power
   lines suspended high above the ground—without disrupting service!

   Linemen throughout the Power Authority come to Clark’s training center
   to learn how to balance on tower beams, repair cable 50 feet off the
   ground and perform up to 60 hotstick techniques.

   Our 10-acre training site has 18 different poles, simulating
   transmission towers, for linemen to practice climbing, hotstick
   techniques and rescues. Although injuries are rare at the Power
   Authority—we observe strict safety standards—our linemen are taught
   lifesaving techniques and practice lowering each other to safety.

                             Back to top of page

        | About NYPA | News | Our Locations | Come Visit Us | Home |

      | St.Lawrence-FDR | Poletti | Clark | Niagara | Indian Point 3 |

           | Flynn | FitzPatrick | Blenheim-Gilboa | Small Hydro |

              Copyright © 1997-2002   New York Power Authority
