http://www.r5.pswfs.gov/employment/index.html

      USDA Forest Service. Activate this link to the national web site.

               [Imagemap]: Button images that serve as links.

 Forest Service shield, which is the agency logo that links to our national
  site. [Pacific Southwest Region Banner]: Pacific Southwest in gold color
        overlaying Region in blue, which links to the regional site.

        [--- National Forests in California ---] [BUTTON Input] (not
                               implemented)___

                        Home > Employment

                                         Find a Forest



                            Recreation Activities

                                    Maps

                              Fire Information

                             Resource Management

                                   Safety

                              Permits & Passes

   Employment

   The USDA Forest Service is people.

      With approximately 29,500 permanent employees and a temporary work
      force which typically exceeds 15,000 workers in the summer, the Forest
      Service is one of the Government's major conservation organizations.
      The agency manages 191 million acres of federal lands, assists state
      and private landowners, conducts research, and works with international
      countries and organizations to build a safer, cleaner and more
      productive world. Employees are stationed at over 900 separate work
      locations. Most locations are in the national forests, but many
      employees work on college campuses, at research laboratories, or in
      office buildings in cities or towns.

      The largest occupations are forestry technician (about 7,000 employees)
      and forester (about 4,000), but the agency employs over 200 separate
      occupations including accounting, aircraft pilots, archeology, civil
      engineering, clerical, computer, ecology, human resource development,
      hydrology, law enforcement, nursing, personnel, public affairs, soil
      conservation, surveying, teaching, wildlife biology, and many other
      occupations.

      Due to the active hiring in the 1960's and 1970's, many Forest Service
      employees are reaching retirement age. In addition, we believe that the
      bulk of the employment reductions are behind us and some disciplines
      should grow--especially those related to conservation, wildlife, and
      communications. As a result, we expect that employment opportunities
      will increase over the next couple years. Over the past 5 years, even
      with our sharp reductions, we hired between 600 to 800 new employees to
      permanent positions each year. Over the next couple years we expect to
      exceed 1,000 new permanent hires each year.

      Current openings are listed on the Office of Personnel Management
      Employment Information Homepage, USAJOBS, accessible here.

   The USDA Forest Service is an Equal Employment Opportunity agency.

                                               Graphic indicating top of page

                  Related web sites in blue and brown text.

                               OPM's USA Jobs
                               USDA Employment
                                FS Employment
                                FS Volunteers

    Many of these links take you outside the Pacific Southwest Region web
    site. These links are not endorsements of any products or services in
   such sites, and no information at these locations has been endorsed or
       approved by the USDA Forest Service, Pacific Southwest Region.

   Privacy Policy

                 USDA Forest Service Pacific Southwest Region

                                                             Disclaimers
