http://www.bernie.house.gov/biography/index.asp

            Bernie Sanders: Vermont's Independent Representative





                          Front Page
                          Constituent Services
                          Press & In The News
                          Document Center
                          Legislation & Issues
                          Photo Album
                          Bernie's Student Site
                          Email List & Website
                             Biography
                           Committees
                                       CQ Biography
                          Links
                          Search

                                  Biography

                         Congressman Bernard Sanders

    *More information about Congressman Sanders can be obtained from his
    political autobiography, Outsider in the House by Bernie Sanders and
   Huck Gutman, Verso Press, 1997. Other books that describe his political
   career as Mayor of Burlington, Vermont and candidate for Congress are:
     People's Republic: Vermont and the Sanders Revolution by Greg Guma,
   1989; Challenging the Boundaries of Reform: Socialism in Burlington by
     W.J. Conroy, 1990; Socialist Mayor: Bernard Sanders in Burlington,
   Vermont by Steven Soifer, 1991; Making History in Vermont: The Election
            of a Socialist to Congress by Steven Rosenfeld, 1992.


   +
     [email.gif]  Recommend
      This Page To A Friend
                                                                        +

      On January 3, 1991, when Bernie Sanders was sworn in as Vermont's
     at-large member in the House of Representatives, history was made.
    Sanders became the first Independent elected to Congress in 40 years.
     He has since been re-elected five times. He is the longest-serving
         Independent in the history of the House of Representatives.

    Bernie and his Family Sanders is married to Dr. Jane O'Meara Sanders,
   who shares many of the Congressman's political interests and has worked
   with him in a variety of capacities for the last twenty years. She also
     served as the Acting President of Goddard College in Vermont and is
       presently a consultant with Georgetown University dealing with
     children's mental health. His older brother Larry lives in England
    where he recently retired as a social worker. Bernie and Jane are the
    very proud parents of four children. Levi, 32, is a housing advocate
    for the Greater Boston Legal Services; Heather 31, is a photographer,
   Carina, 27, is a member of the Vermont State Legislature and David 25,
                      works in the snowboard business.

      Bernie was born in Brooklyn, New York in 1941, the son of a paint
     salesman who immigrated to this country as a young man. His mother
     raised her two sons in a small apartment while his father earned a
     steady but limited income. Sanders' family circumstances, in which
    money was often tight, heavily influenced his understanding about the
        financial difficulties that face many working class families.

   Sanders graduated from James Madison High School in Brooklyn, and spent
   one year at Brooklyn College. He then transferred to the University of
    Chicago, where he graduated in 1964. That same year, Sanders and his
              first wife purchased land in Middlesex, Vermont.

    In 1971 his interest in progressive politics took him to a meeting of
   the newly-formed Liberty Union Party, a third-party alternative to the
     Democrats and the Republicans. He left that meeting as the Party's
   candidate for the U.S. Senate, and ended up with 2 percent of the vote.
    He ran three more races as a Liberty Union candidate - once more for
   the U.S. Senate, and twice for Governor. His highest statewide vote as
   a Liberty Union candidate was six percent. During all of his campaigns,
   Bernie focused on issues of importance to working people and the class
   nature of American society. In 1977, Sanders resigned from the Liberty
    Union party and worked as a writer and the director of the non-profit
                    American People's Historical Society.

      In 1981, Bernie's good friend, Richard Sugarman, a University of
   Vermont philosophy professor, convinced him that if he ran for Mayor of
   Burlington, the largest city in the state and where Sanders had resided
    for a number of years -- he could do more than just raise issues: he
    could win the election. And to the shock of all the pundits, and the
    consternation of the downtown business community, that's exactly what
      happened. With overwhelming support from the working class wards,
     Bernie pulled off one of the biggest political upsets in Vermont's
   history. Running as an Independent, he defeated the six term Democratic
     incumbent - by 12 votes! He would go on to win three more terms as
   Mayor of Burlington, defeating Democratic and Republican candidates. In
    1987, he defeated the mayoral candidate that both parties supported.

   In 1982, in order to defend the initiatives that Sanders was trying to
        implement against the fierce opposition of the Democrats and
    Republicans on the City Council, the local business community and the
     largest newspaper in the state, hundreds of people came together in
      Burlington to form the Progressive Coalition -- the City's third
       political party. While the Progressive Coalition never gained a
    majority in the City Council during his tenure as Mayor, the five and
      six seats (out of thirteen) it controlled over the years provided
   Sanders with veto power, and it gave the Progressives enough political
             clout to bring about sweeping reforms in the City.

   In his years as Mayor, Sanders and the Progressives established a Youth
      Office that developed a city-run day-care center, a teen center,
   after-school programs and many other activities for kids. They started
    a Women's Council that became one of the leading organizations in the
     state in the fight for women's rights. The City also established an
   Arts Council that greatly expanded the community's cultural activities
    with free concerts, a Jazz festival, First Night, poetry readings and
                         many other cultural events.

    The Sanders administration expanded low- and moderate-income housing
     and the rights of tenants. Burlington became the first city in the
   nation to fund community land-trust housing. Despite fierce opposition
    from the state legislature and segments of the business community, he
    also succeeded in making Burlington the first community in Vermont to
       broaden its tax structure beyond almost total dependence on the
   regressive property tax. His initiatives included hotel and restaurant
    taxes, and charging franchise fees to utilities. He also took on the
       local cable TV company and succeeded in winning lower rates for
      consumers, as well as a substantial cash settlement for the City.

     Like many other waterfront communities, Burlington had debated for
    years what kind of activities it wanted on its shores - the beautiful
     Lake Champlain. With an enormous amount of public input, and with a
   major legal battle against a railroad that owned substantial waterfront
   property, the City finally moved forward in developing one of the most
     beautiful people-oriented waterfronts in the country - including a
           community- owned boat house and a nine-mile bike path.

         The Sanders administration also made some very significant
    environmental improvements. With state and federal funding, the City
    developed a new sewage disposal system that significantly reduced the
      pollution in Lake Champlain, and built one of the first bio-mass
                electrical generating plants in the country.

     Sanders and the Progressives strongly believed in the adage, "think
   globally, act locally." In order to help create a more peaceful world,
    the City of Burlington started successful sister-cities programs with
            Puerto Cabezas in Nicaragua, and Yaroslavl in Russia.

   Sanders stepped down as Mayor of Burlington after four terms, and eight
   years. He was followed in office by fellow Progressive Peter Clavelle,
   who has served as Mayor of Burlington for 12 out of the last 14 years.
     One of the mayoral accomplishments that Bernie is most proud of is
   that, during his tenure, the City almost doubled its voter turnout and
          greatly increased citizen participation in local affairs.

    In 1986, Bernie ran for Governor of Vermont and came in third with 14
     percent of the vote. In 1988, he ran for Vermont's lone seat in the
    U.S. House of Representatives and lost. The winner, former Republican
   Lieutenant Governor Peter Smith, received 41 percent of the vote while
   Sanders, an Independent received 38% and the Democratic candidate Paul
   Poirier received 18 percent. In 1990, after spending a year teaching at
      the John F. Kennedy School at Harvard University and at Hamilton
   College in upstate New York, Sanders ran for Congress again. This time
       he won, defeating Smith by 16 percentage points. The Democratic
                     candidate came in a distant third.

          During his years in Congress, Sanders has approached his
       responsibilities from several important perspectives. First, as
     Vermont's only representative in Congress, he and his very capable
    staff have worked hard to protect the interests of the people of his
        state. Secondly, in a Congress heavily dominated by corporate
     interests, he has attempted to force discussion on issues that the
       monied interests would prefer to ignore. Thirdly, he has worked
       successfully to pass legislation that is improving the lives of
           millions of Americans and people throughout the world.

   As Vermont's Congressman Sanders, along with Vermont Senators Leahy and
   Jeffords, was successful - against very strong and ongoing opposition -
     in passing the Northeast Dairy Compact - of great importance to the
     state's family farmers and rural economy. He has also brought money
   into the state to allow Vermont farmers to expand their incomes through
   agri-tourism. The preservation of family-based agriculture, in Vermont
        and throughout the country, remains a major concern for him.

         Sanders also passed legislation that expanded the Commodity
     Supplemental Food Program into Vermont, which is now providing free
   nutritious food to over 7,000 lower income Vermont senior citizens. He
     has also brought funding into the state that will provide a dental
     clinic in Burlington, expanded health opportunities and lower cost
      prescription drugs in the Northeast Kingdom, affordable housing,
           improved rural transportation and economic development.

    Sanders received national recognition by helping to lead the fight to
     keep lower-income Vermonters and Americans warm in the wintertime,
   through successful efforts to increase funding for the Low-Income Home
   Energy Assistance (LIHEAP). He has also brought funding into the state
      for the student-based development of a curriculum on child-labor.

    Congressman Sanders is a very strong defender of veterans' rights. He
    believes that Congress must keep faith with the men and women who put
     their lives on the line defending this country. As a result of his
    efforts, the Veterans Administration established a national clinical
       trial for Persian Gulf War veterans suffering from Persian Gulf
    Syndrone. Vermont veterans are participating in that study at the VA
    hospital in White River Junction, Vermont. Along with Senators Leahy
     and Jeffords, Sanders has also helped bring in over $20 million for
     that VA facility in a 3-year period. Bernie has been concerned that
   many Vermont veterans are not fully aware of the benefits to which they
     are entitled. As a result, he has held many veterans' town meetings
    around the state. The result is that hundreds of Vermont veterans are
    now utilizing VA programs such as the prescription drug benefit that
                          they had not known about.

    In recent years, Bernie has been extremely active on two initiatives
    that started in Vermont but have had major national implications. In
   1999, in order to fight against the outrageously high prescription drug
    prices that Vermonters and all Americans are forced to pay, he led a
       nationally publicized bus trip across the Canadian border with
    Vermonters to buy prescription drugs. As a result, the nation learned
      that the pharmaceutical industry sells the exact same medicine in
   Canada, and every other country, at far lower prices than they are sold
   in the United States. This trip greatly accelerated efforts in Vermont
    in which Vermonters are now going across the border in large numbers
   for medicine and, in the process, are saving significant sums of money.

         Even more important, after Sanders' trip a number of other
    Congresspersons and Senators made (and are making) similar trips. The
    fact that Americans pay, by far, the highest prices in the world for
     medicine has now become one of the most talked about issues in the
     country, and one of major political issues facing Congress and the
     White House. Sanders remains one of the leaders in Congress in the
   fight to lower prescription drug costs and provide a prescription drug
   benefit under Medicare for all seniors. Several major prescription drug
          initiatives introduced by Sanders have passed the House.

      In another Vermont issue that reached across the country, Sanders
       played an active role in working with Vermont IBM employees who
    experienced a massive cut-back in the pensions they had been promised
   by that company. The IBM decision affected thousands of Vermont workers
    and some 35,000 IBM employees nationally. After a Town Meeting called
   by Sanders attracted some 700 IBM employees, the largest congressional
    town meeting in Vermont memory, and after a very effective organizing
     effort by Vermont IBM employees, the company decided to reverse its
   position on the cut-backs for older workers. As a result, the pensions
   of many thousands of workers were saved. Sanders is continuing to work
    on legislation that will prevent corporate America from slashing the
                             workers' pensions.

     When Bernie took office in 1991, he was concerned that there was no
      organized group in the House of Representatives to represent the
      economic interests of the average American. Along with four other
   members of the House, he founded the House Progressive Caucus that has
   now grown to 56 members. Sanders chaired the caucus for its first eight
      years. In the last three years he has been ably followed in that
    position by Representatives Peter DeFazio (D/OR) and Dennis Kucinich
      (D/OH). The Progressive Caucus, on a wide variety of matters, has
     helped lead the effort in Congress to protect the interests of the
   ordinary citizens of this country who cannot afford to contribute large
                  sums of money to buy political influence.

          SOME NATIONAL ISSUES OF IMPORTANCE TO CONGRESSMAN SANDERS

                           Progressive Tax Reform

   Bernie believes that the federal tax system is unfair -- unduly taxing
     working and middle-class people and giving excessive tax breaks to
   corporations and the wealthy. He strongly opposed President Bush's tax
      proposal that gave $500 billion in tax breaks to the richest one
    percent of the population. That proposal made a bad and unfair system
   much worse and endangered the long-term financial well-being of Social
                           Security and Medicare.

     During the debate on President Bush's tax proposal Sanders and the
     Progressive Caucus presented a radically different approach to tax
      relief. Rather than giving massive tax breaks to millionaires and
     billionaires, the Progressives argued that because the surplus was
   created by all Americans, all of our citizens should enjoy it equally.
   The Progressive proposal called for a $300 rebate for every man, woman
       and child in this country to be triggered by an annual analysis
      indicating that the country could afford it. The Progressive tax
    proposal was substantially smaller than the President's, and far more
    targeted to the middle-class and working families who need tax relief
   the most. Interestingly, the Republicans watered down and used part of
     the Progressive tax rebate concept by giving $300 back for just one
     year to taxpayers who had paid at least that much in federal income
                                   tax.).

                            National Health Care

   Bernie believes health care is a right, not a privilege. He regards the
      current non-system, in which 44 million Americans have no health
   insurance and many more are under-insured, as morally unacceptable and
    financially wasteful. Bernie believes that because the United States
     now spends twice as much per person as any other country on health
   care, we should be able to provide the best health care in the world to
   all of our people through a state-administered single-payer health care
                                   system.

   Getting Our Priorities Right Bernie understands that the United States
       is a great nation, and that we have much to be proud of. But he
   strongly believes that Congress, in many instances, has its priorities
    backwards. Bernie has strongly opposed increases in spending for the
   military, Star Wars, the CIA, corporate welfare, the Space Station and
     other programs. He believes it is absurd that we spend hundreds of
     billions in these areas while, at the same time, inadequate federal
     spending denies millions of Americans the most basic necessities of
   life. While Bernie wants to cut spending on the military and corporate
       subsidies, he wants to increase federal funding for education,
       affordable housing, childcare, workers' rights, social justice,
    veterans' needs, environmental protection and other initiatives that
                  improve the lives of ordinary Americans.

                               The Environment

        At a time when our planet is facing horrendous and dangerous
    environmental assaults, and when millions of people are becoming ill
   and dying as a result of environmental degradation, Bernie believes it
         is imperative that Congress take bold action to protect the
                                environment.

       In 1992, because of his concerns about the relationship between
     environmental degradation and cancer, Bernie authored and Congress
   passed the National Cancer Registry Act. This law created a nationwide
     system of cancer registries to provide basic data on environmental
    causes of cancer. The Registry is now helping doctors and researchers
        detect how toxic waste dumps, air pollution, and occupational
      pollutants lead to cancer. Bernie has also been active in pushing
     research on the environmental causes of Gulf War Illness. Following
     Congressional hearings which he initiated, Bernie was successful in
      jawboning the Carpet and Rug Institute to develop labels for all
   carpets and alert consumers that carpeting contains chemicals which can
    cause illness for those who are chemically sensitive. Bernie has also
       held several major conferences in Vermont on Multiple Chemical
       Sensitivity. In recognition of his efforts, Bernie received the
      American Academy of Environmental Medicine's prestigious Jonathan
     Forman Award on October 17, 1994. The award is given annually to an
     individual who has made an outstanding contribution to the field of
                           environmental medicine.

                          A National Energy Policy

      Bernie believes thatconservation, increased fuel efficiency, and
    alternative and renewable sources of energy are necessary to counter
   global warming and our nation's increasing dependence on fossil fuels.
      Congressman Sanders is the author of sweeping energy conservation
    legislation. Congress also passed legislaton authored by Bernie that
    eliminated corporate welfare for fossil fuels, and increased funding
                        for weatherization programs.

    Bernie strongly opposes the Bush administration's energy policy, with
    its reliance on increased nuclear generating plants, its despoliation
     of the Arctic wilderness, and its unilateral rejection of the Kyoto
    Accord. The key to an effective energy policy, Bernie believes, is to
   emphasize conservation and explore renewable sources of energy such as
   wind, solar and biomass. In fact, while Bernie was Mayor of Burlington,
    that city's municipal electric company constructed the nation's first
                 wood-powered electricity generating plant.

                               Workers' Rights

   Bernie Sanders is one of the few members of Congress with a 100 percent
   lifetime voting record in support of workers' rights. He not only votes
    right, but he is a leader on a number of initiatives that protect the
    dignity and well being of workers in the United States and throughout
    the world. When Vermont workers need support, they often call on him,
     and it is not uncommon to find the Congressman on a Vermont picket
                                    line.

    Congressman Sanders does not accept the corporate media line that the
      economy has been "booming" for the last ten years. He points out
   repeatedly that the average worker today is earning less than he or she
     was in 1973, and that because of the decline in real wages American
       workers now work the longest hours in the industrialized world.

     Among other policy changes, Bernie believes that Congress needs to
   significantly raise the minimum wage and move it toward a living wage.
   He has recently introduced a bill that would raise the minimum wage to
     $8.15 an hour over two years and index it to the rate of inflation.

     The Congressman has also been a leader in opposition to our current
     disastrous trade policy, which has given us a record-breaking $430
   billion trade deficit. He opposed NAFTA, GATT, Fast Track, and MFN and
    PNTR with China. Bernie does not believe that American workers should
    be forced to compete with the desperately poor workers in developing
      countries, who have to work for wages as low as 10 cents an hour.
     Bernie believes in "fair trade," not the race to the bottom that is
      fostered by unfettered "free trade." He wants a trade policy that
       protects working people throughout the world, and not just the
                         multinational corporations.

   Bernie has also introduced labor reform legislation that would make it
   easier for American workers to form unions. He believes that under the
    current rules of the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), the deck is
    often stacked in favor of the company - making it very difficult for
   workers to exercise their democratic right to organize. At a time when
   unionized workers earn 30 percent more than non-union workers for doing
    the same jobs, Bernie believes that more workers would join unions if
                      they had a fair chance to do so.

                             A Strong Safety Net

   Bernie believes that a nation should be judged not by how much it gives
    in tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires, but by how it treats
        its weakest and most vulnerable citizens. In that light, the
    Congressman believes that there is much that needs to be done in the
     United States for our seniors, children, the sick and the disabled.

   Bernie is a strong advocate for senior citizens. He is helping to lead
        the fight against privatizing Social Security, has introduced
     legislation to raise the Social Security COLA, strongly opposed the
       massive cuts in Medicare in 1997 and is a leading supporter of
                         affordable senior housing.

   In terms of children's needs, Congressman Sanders believes that it is a
    national disgrace that almost 20 percent of our kids live in poverty.
    He thinks it makes a lot more sense to put funding into programs that
   allow our children to grow up healthy, happy and well educated, than to
      build more jails and increase our incarceration rate -- which is
      already the highest in the world. Among other efforts, Bernie has
     recently organized a non-partisan caucus in Congress to address the
                         severe crisis in childcare.

   Bernie thinks it is important for elected officials to listen to young
    people, understanding that they not only have a unique perspective on
    the nation, but are themselves the nation's future. Each year, Bernie
   holds a Student Town Meeting at which high school students from around
   Vermont give testimony to a Congressional panel about the concerns they
   have as teenagers. Their concerns are not just aired to the panel, but
    are printed in the Congressional Record and broadcast throughout the
    state on cable television. Congressman Sanders has also visited with
        students at almost every high school and college in Vermont.

                        Justice and Equality for All

     Congressman Sanders believes strongly that all Americans should be
   judged by the quality of their character, and not by their skin color,
   nationality, gender or sexual orientation. He has, over the years, been
    a leading supporter of a woman's right to choose, affirmative action,
      and all efforts to end discrimination against minorities and gay
                                   people.




                      search    bernie@mail.house.gov
