http://www.eren.nrel.gov/EE/industry.html

   Skip Header Navigation and Go to Industry Search and Resources

   Industry
   Navigation

   _________________
   Search

   Search   Search Options
   Skip Industry Organizations and Resources Navigational Links
   Industry Organizations and Resources
   U.S. Department of Energy Resources
   U.S. State and Local Resources
   U.S. Trade and Nonprofit Resources
   U.S. Universities and Research Institutes
   International Organizations
   Newsletters and Magazines
   Products and Services

                      Office of Industrial Technologies

   Industry Topics

   Industry uses more than one-third of all the energy used in the United
   States. Most of the energy industry uses is supplied from natural gas
   and petroleum, with electricity coming in a distant third, followed
   closely by coal. Certain industries, for instance steel production,
   require a large amount of energy per unit of product, and are the best
   candidates on which to focus energy-efficiency efforts.

   More basic information about industrial energy efficiency is also
   available.

   Technologies
   Industry-Specific Technologies
   Efforts to develop energy-efficient technologies are focused on the
   most energy-intensive industries, including agriculture, the aluminum
   industry, the chemical industry, the forest products industry, the
   glass industry, the metalcasting industry, the mining industry, the
   petroleum industry, and the steel industry. Much of the work in
   agriculture and the chemical industry focuses on producing bioproducts
   from agricultural crops. See the Biobased Chemicals and Materials page
   of the Bioenergy section for more information.

   Combined Heat and Power Systems
   The onsite production of electricity is particularly attractive to
   industries that can also make use of the waste heat. Such combined heat
   and power (CHP) systems — also called cogeneration systems — achieve
   higher thermal efficiencies than stand-alone power plants.

   Motors
   Motor-driven equipment accounts for 64% of the electricity consumed by
   U.S. industries. Energy-efficient motors can cut this energy use by at
   least 12%.

   Steam Systems
   Over 45% of all the fuel burned by U.S. manufacturers is consumed to
   raise steam. A typical industrial facility can realize steam savings of
   20% by improving its steam system. Simple approaches to improving
   energy performance include insulating steam and condensate return
   lines, stopping any steam leaks, and maintaining steam traps.
   Condensate return to the boiler is essential for energy efficiency.

   Compressed Air Systems
   Optimization of compressed air systems can provide energy-efficiency
   improvements of 20–50%. Many industries use compressed air systems as
   power sources for tools and equipment used for pressurizing, atomizing,
   agitating, and mixing applications. Compressors using variable-speed
   drives are saving energy, while simple measures like detecting and
   fixing air leaks remain all-important.

   Continuous Fiber Ceramic Composites (CFCC)
   These composites are light, strong, corrosion resistant, and capable of
   performing in high temperature environments, without the brittleness of
   pure ceramics.

   Combustion
   Boilers and furnaces, rely on advanced burners to operate cleanly and
   efficiently. Emissions of pollutants such as nitrous oxides (NOx) are
   always of concern in combustion processes.

   Sensors and Controls
   All industrial systems rely on sensors and controls. Advanced sensors
   and control systems can allow processes to operate at their optimal
   conditions.

   Issues
   Industrial Energy Assessments
   Just as homes need energy audits, industries need energy assessments to
   identify the areas they can focus on for energy savings.

   Financing
   A variety of financing sources are available to fund industrial energy
   efficiency improvements.

                    Skip Footer Navigation to End of Page

   Ask an Energy Expert  |   Search  |   Webmaster  |   Security & Privacy
                           Notices  |   EREN Home
