http://www.dva.wa.gov/news.htm

                               [Webbanner.jpg]

   "Serving Those Who Served"

   Home
   Master Plan
   Agency Vision
   Legislative Updates
   Benefits
   PTSD
   Veteran Homes
   Special Events
   Hot Links
   Employment
   RCW

                           [LogoColnew_small.jpg]
                               WDVA Fast Facts

                             [WAflag_small.jpg]
                            Military and Veterans
                              Affairs Committee

                               [VAACicon.jpg]
                              Veterans Affairs
                             Advisory Committee

                              [VISON20LOGO.jpg]



News Releases


     January 29, 2002  Veterans Fair to be held at South Puget Sound
                       Community College
     January 29, 2002  Council OKs $800,000 for homeless center
     January 29, 2002  Military retirees fight for full pensions
     January 28, 2002  President Signs Smith Veterans’ Health Legislation
     January 28, 2002  VA Compensates More Veterans Exposed to Radiation
     January 28, 2002  VA Raises Education Reimbursement Levels for Veterans
     January 28, 2002  VA Creates Gulf War Advisory Committee
     January 24, 2002  EX-POW John Creighton Carries the Olympic Torch
     January 25, 2002  $29,425 awarded to assist with veterans memorials
     January 22, 2002  Military Veterans Fair at CWU in Ellensburg
     January 17, 2002  VA Signs Agreement for Hispanic Employment
     January 17, 2002  VA Launches Four Hepatitis C Centers
     January 17, 2002  Informational meeting with Federal VA Official to
                       discuss State Cemetery Grants
     January 17, 2002  Seattle Veterans Museum
     January 15, 2002  NCOA Donates Funds Enhancing Homes' Programs
     January 10, 2002  Veterans Benefits To Increase By 2.6 Percent
     January 10, 2002  VA Improves Benefits For Filipino Veterans
     January 7, 2002   Yakima site of Military Veterans Fair - Jan. 18
     January 6, 2002   Put VA cards on must-do list
     January 4, 2002   Fed VA approves $30.7 million construction grant
     January 3, 2002   Gerald McRaney Helps VA Recruit Volunteers, Recognize
                       Veterans
     January 2, 2002   Veterans Fair to be held at Green River College
     January 2, 2002   Governor’s Veterans Committee to meet in Olympia
     January 2, 2002   VA's Homeless Veterans Programs Expanded
     December 28, 2001 $30.7 million OK'd for Retsil construction
     December 28, 2001 Kingston in Kitsap County Site of Veterans Fair
     December 28, 2001 Shipyard Santas
     December 19, 2001 FORT LEWIS  - Fort adjusts hours at log center gate
                       SOUTH SOUND - Network helps military families
     December 19, 2001 House Veterans’ Affairs Committee 2001
                       Accomplishments
     December 14, 2001 Veterans' Mail to D.C. Offices Held Up by Anthrax
                       Mail Disruption
     December 13, 2001 Committee Approves Legislation To Reform Burial Rules
                       at Arlington National Cemetery
     December 13, 2001 Pay raises and base closures highlight bill
     December 12, 2001 Groups prescribe health database
     December 11, 2001 Trio of Smith Veterans Bills Get Final House Approval
     December 10, 2001 Tree of Remembrance honors state’s heroes
     December 10, 2001 Desert Shield, Desert Storm Vets Have Higher Rate Of
                       ALS
     December 6, 2001  VA to Lower Copayments for Outpatient Care
     December 4, 2001  Two Veterans Home Residents Celebrate 100th Birthday

          ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 29, 2002
   Veterans Fair to be held at South Puget Sound Community College -
   Olympia - Feb. 11
   Information and Assistance Available to public

   Olympia
   - The Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs (WDVA) will be
   holding a Veterans Information and Assistance Fair from 8:00 a.m. to
   8:00 p.m., Monday, February 11 at the South Puget Sound Community
   College in Olympia.

   Veterans and their families are encouraged to come by, where federal,
   state, county, city, public and private organizations will be available
   to provide information to the public on veterans benefits and services.

   Who:
   Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs
   What: Veterans Information and Assistance Fair
   When: Monday, Feb. 11 - 8:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m.
   Where: South Puget Sound Community College
               2011 Mottman Rd. SW
               Student Services, Bldg. 25, Room 119
               Olympia, WA

   Metered parking available just west of Student Services Building
   For a map of the campus:
   http://www.spscc.ctc.edu/images/campus_pictures/campusmap_color2001.JPG
   For IT route information:
   http://www.intercitytransit.com/html/route_44.html

   Contact:
   Cherise McArthur, Veterans Community Service Coordinator, 360- 478-565,
   e-mail - cherisem@dva.wa.gov

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 29, 2002 - Distributed by Scripps Howard News Service
   http://www.shns.com
   Council OKs $800,000 for homeless center

   SEATTLE -- The City Council yesterday set aside $800,000 to develop a
   new downtown hygiene and day center with bathrooms, showers, laundry
   facilities and other services to serve the city's 2,000 homeless
   people.

   Last fall, the city agreed to develop a hygiene center and add 173
   homeless shelter beds as part of a compromise with homeless advocates,
   who agreed to drop a ballot initiative to increase city homeless
   funding. The city was unable to commit funds because of the tight
   budget.

   After the 2002 budget was adopted in November, the city found $3.4
   million in an escrow account that had previously been tied up in
   litigation.

         ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 28, 2002 - Scripps Howard News Service
   Military retirees fight for full pensions
   By SIDNEY SCHUHMANN
   For more than 100 years, the government has refused to pay military
   retirees their full pensions plus disability, a benefit afforded to
   retired civil servants.

   Those military retirees who receive a disability check have the same
   amount deducted from their pension.

   The law that prevents military retirees from receiving a full pension
   plus disability was repealed in the 2002 Defense Authorization Act,
   which President Bush signed into law on Dec. 28, but the money to fund
   it has yet to appear. The estimated cost of paying full benefits to the
   682,540 military retirees with disabilities is $2 billion a year.

   Before disabled military retirees can receive full benefits, Bush must
   include funds to pay for the repealed law in his budget proposal next
   month. Congress also must pass a resolution declaring from where the
   money will come.

   Retirees are skeptical the money will appear. They say they've been
   disappointed by lawmakers for decades.

   "They don't have the guts to put the money where their mouth is," said
   Air Force retiree William Thomas of Abilene, Texas. "This is not right,
   but they don't think enough of us to straighten it up."

   The Defense Department pays military retiree pensions and the
   Department of Veterans Affairs pays disability benefits, which are
   tax-free.

   A veteran who is 10-percent disabled receives $101 a month in
   disability. That amount is then deducted from his pension. A 60-percent
   disabled vet receives $769 a month and a 100-percent disabled vet
   receives $2,107 a month. Some veterans receive additional money for
   being married or having a certain injury, such as a missing limb.

   Thomas, 79, served during three wars before retiring with a 70-percent
   disability in 1970. He became 100 percent disabled in 1998 after
   suffering prostate cancer, which he believes was the result of exposure
   to the herbicide Agent Orange in Vietnam.

   As a retired master sergeant, he said he should receive $2,200 in
   retiree pay a month plus the $2,300 he collects for disability.
   Instead, he receives only disability pay. Disabled retirees receive
   whichever payment is larger - the disability or the pension.

   Earlier this month, Thomas filed a waiver through the office of Rep.
   Charles Stenholm, D-Texas, to get both disability and a full pension.
   He's awaiting word on his waiver.

   "I can't wait around for years," he said. "It's a disgrace to the
   country the way they have treated us."

   The new law includes a special pay increase for severely disabled
   military retirees:
   - Retirees who are 70 percent or more disabled within four years of
   retirement may qualify for monthly payments up to $300.
   - Retirees who are 60 percent disabled would be eligible Feb. 1 for
   monthly payments of $50.
   - Payments for those disabled 80 to 90 percent would rise $25 a month
   effective Jan. 1.
   - Retirees who are 70 percent or more disabled would receive another
   monthly increase of $25 starting Oct. 1, 2004.

   On the Web: Retired Enlisted Association's legislative affairs office:
   www.trea.org

         ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 28, 2002
   House Committee on Veterans' Affairs - NEWS RELEASE -
   veterans.house.gov

   President Signs Smith Veterans’ Health Legislation Adding $1.4 Billion
   in Expanded Medical Benefits Becomes Smith’s Fifth New Law Enacted
   Since Becoming Chairman

   (Washington, DC) - President Bush today signed legislation (H.R. 3447)
   authored by Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-04) that adds $1.4 billion to
   expand and strengthen health care programs for the nation’s 25 million
   veterans, including almost 700,000 who live in New Jersey.

   The new law, H.R. 3447, the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care
   Programs Enhancement Act, is the fifth major piece of veterans
   legislation sponsored by Smith, Chairman of the House Committee on
   Veterans’ Affairs, to be enacted into law during the 107th Congress.

   “Perhaps most important for New Jersey is a provision which could
   provide significant relief for thousands of lower-middle income
   veterans,” said Smith. “Under Section 202 of the new law, the VA will
   lower co-payments for hospital inpatient care by 80 percent for
   veterans meeting a new regional means test. This could translate into
   an out-of-pocket savings of over $600 for each hospitalization,” he
   said.

   “Since national formulas to determine financial need often fail to take
   into account the regional differences in the cost of living, this
   provision is a pivotal step towards ensuring full equity for New
   Jersey’s veterans, who live in one of the most expensive regions of the
   country,” Smith said.

   “Another innovative new program will allow the VA to provide trained
   service dogs to veterans who are paralyzed, suffer severe immobility
   problems, loss of hearing or other conditions that would benefit from a
   service dog,” said Smith. “Similar to guide dogs for the blind, trained
   service dogs can provide vital assistance -- such as listening for door
   bells, retrieving food or medicines from other rooms, or physically
   moving people -- that could allow many disabled veterans to lead more
   independent lives,” he said.

   Other provisions of H.R. 3447 will establish a National Commission to
   enhance recruitment and retention of nurses at VA facilities; establish
   chiropractic services within the VA health care system on a nationwide
   basis; and require the VA to maintain specialized medical programs --
   such as for mental illness, spinal cord injuries and prosthetics -- in
   each of the VA’s 22 health care networks.

   The four Smith laws previously enacted during the 107th Congress are:
   H.R. 1291 - Veterans Education and Benefits Expansion Act (P.L.
   107-103) Increasing educational, housing, burial and disability
   benefits by $3.1 billion Signed by President Bush on December 27, 2001.

     Boosts the MGIB college education benefit amount by a record 46%
     within 2 years, increasing the lifetime college benefit for
     qualified veterans from $24,192 to $35,460.
     The GI Bill is among the most successful government programs ever
     passed by Congress, helping create the middle class and serving as
     the military’s top recruiting tool.

   H.R. 2716 - Homeless Veterans Comprehensive Assistance Act (P.L.
   107-95) Authorizes $1 billion to aid homeless veterans and prevent
   at-risk veterans from becoming homeless. Signed by President Bush on
   December 21, 2001.

   H.R. 2540 - Veterans’ Compensation Rate Amendments of 2001 (P.L.
   107-94) Boosts compensation payments for disabled veterans by $2.4
   billion over five years. Signed by President Bush on December 21, 2001

   H.R. 801 - Veterans’ Survivors Benefits Improvements Act (P.L. 107-14)
   Adds $100 million in new health care benefits for surviving spouses of
   veterans, and extends life insurance coverage to spouses and children
   of servicemembers. Signed by President Bush on June 5, 2001

   In addition, two other Smith veterans bills have passed the House and
   are in the Senate awaiting action:
   H.R. 3423 - Reforming Burial Rules at Arlington National Cemetery.
   Reforms Arlington National Cemetery burial regulations for Guard and
   reserve. Passed the House on December 20, 2001 - Pending in the Senate

   H.R. 811 - Veterans Hospitals Emergency Repair Act - Authorizes $550
   million to repair and renovate dilapidated VA medical facilities.
   Passed the House on March 27, 2001 - Still pending in the Senate

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 28, 2002
   VA Compensates More Veterans Exposed to Radiation

   WASHINGTON - Secretary of Veterans Affairs (VA) Anthony J. Principi
   announced today the addition of five new cancers to the list of
   diseases presumed to be connected to the exposure of veterans to
   radiation during their military service. Veterans diagnosed with cancer
   of the bone, brain, colon, lung or ovary will have an easier time
   establishing entitlement to compensation for their illnesses beginning
   March 26, 2002.

   "These veterans accepted the risks of duty and have borne the burden of
   their illnesses in service to our nation. They should not have to bear
   an additional and unequal burden to prove they deserve the benefits
   they've so rightfully earned. The new rules will not cure their
   cancers, but they will ease the burden of proof required to receive
   appropriate compensation for their disabilities," Principi said.

   The new rules apply to those veterans who participated in
   “radiation-risk activities” while on active duty, during active duty
   for training or inactive duty training as a member of a reserve
   component.

   The definition of radiation-risk activities has also been expanded to
   include service at Amchitka Island, Alaska, prior to January 1, 1974,
   if a veteran was exposed while performing duties related to certain
   underground nuclear tests. The new definition also includes service at
   gaseous diffusion plants located in Paducah, Ky., Portsmouth, Ohio and
   an area known as K25 at Oak Ridge, Tenn. The previous definition was
   limited to service members who took part in the occupation of Hiroshima
   or Nagasaki or onsite at atmospheric nuclear weapons tests, or American
   POWs interred in Japan during World War II. People in these groups are
   frequently called "atomic veterans."

   In 1988, Congress established a presumption of service connection for
   13 cancers in veterans exposed to “ionizing radiation,” with later
   changes bringing the number to 16.

   Under current statutes, the following diseases are presumed to be
   service connected if the veteran participated in a radiation-risk
   activity: leukemia (other than chronic lymphocytic leukemia), cancer of
   the thyroid, breast, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine,
   pancreas, gall bladder, bile ducts, salivary gland, or urinary tract,
   multiple myeloma, lymphomas (except Hodgkin’s disease), primary cancer
   of the liver (except if cirrhosis or hepatitis B is indicated) or
   bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma.

   VA’s changes ensure equity between veterans and federal civilians who
   may be entitled to compensation for these cancers caused by radiation
   under comparable federal laws such as the Radiation Exposure
   Compensation Act (RECA) of 1990, as amended in 2000.

   Veterans or their survivors can file claims for compensation by
   contacting a VA regional office at 1-800-827-1000 or visiting VA's
   Website at www.va.gov

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 28, 2002 VA News Release
   VA Raises Education Reimbursement Levels for Veterans

   WASHINGTON - The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is providing
   veterans a major boost in the monthly educational payments offered
   under the Montgomery GI Bill.

   Concerned about the underuse of Montgomery GI Bill benefits by eligible
   veterans, VA supported an increase in reimbursement rates well above
   the normal cost-of-living increases because these annual adjustments
   have not kept pace with rising college education costs.

   "Under legislation signed by President Bush, we now are on track to
   gain the tuition spending power veterans expect," VA Secretary Anthony
   J. Principi said. "We are coupling a series of robust payment increases
   over the next two years with innovative programs that will help prepare
   today's servicemember with the education needed for tomorrow's job
   market."

   At the top tier for full-time studies, the tuition reimbursement rate
   rises from $672 to $800 per month, almost 20 percent. That will jump to
   $900 next fall and $985 in October 2003. Rates are adjusted for
   veterans enrolled part-time or for those with limited military service.

   In addition to covering traditional two-year and four-year college
   studies, a new VA program taking effect next fall is aimed at high
   technology courses. It will allow veterans to use a lump sum from their
   benefit for certain expensive courses such as those leading to
   certification of computer network professionals.

   Coverage of up to 60 percent of the cost of such high-tech courses will
   begin Oct. 1, 2002.

   VA currently is developing regulations needed to launch this new
   program. The new law specifies a formula limiting it to expensive
   courses.

   The increase in tuition reimbursement as well as the VA's support for
   high-tech courses reflect department efforts to boost use of the
   current education program, which began in 1985. Veterans generally have
   10 years after release from active duty to use the funds, but only
   about 60 percent have used some of their benefit.

   In addition, about 90 percent of all eligible veterans have not
   exhausted their account. VA hopes new strategies such as accelerated
   payment for high-tech courses will enable more veterans to take
   advantage of their remaining benefits.

   Few servicemembers opt out of coverage. Participants' pay is reduced by
   $100 per month for their first 12 months on active duty to cover a
   total veteran contribution of $1,200. The full-time rate of $800 a
   month is paid for up to 36 months of study, which covers the academic
   months of a traditional 4-year college education for a return value of
   $28,800 at today's top rate.

   The new law, the Veterans Education and Benefits Expansion Act of 2001
   (Public Law 107-103), also improves educational assistance for eligible
   spouses and children of certain veterans, including veterans who died
   or are permanently and totally disabled as a result of a
   service-connected disability.

   For more information about veterans educational programs, call VA at
   888-442-4551.

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 28, 2002 - VA News Release
   VA Creates Gulf War Advisory Committee

   WASHINGTON - Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony J. Principi today
   announced a new advisory committee that will help the Department of
   Veterans Affairs (VA) oversee its research into the medical problems of
   Gulf War veterans.

   "Gulf War veterans have waited too long for answers to many of their
   questions," Principi said. "This committee, composed of medical experts
   and veterans, will focus on the research that we hope will improve the
   health of ill Gulf War veterans."

   The 12-member Research Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans'
   Illnesses was established by Congress to advise the VA secretary on
   proposed research studies.

   The panel must submit an annual report on the status and results of
   government research during the previous year and on research priorities
   identified by the committee.

   The group's charter, established by Section 104 of Public Law 105-368,
   which was signed Nov. 11, 1998, says the panel shall "provide advice
   and make recommendations to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on
   proposed research studies, research plans and research strategies
   relating to the health consequences of military service in the
   Southwest Asia theater of operations during the Persian Gulf War."

   Although the panel will not conduct research, its charter instructs the
   committee to review "all relevant research, investigations, and
   processes" done in the past to assess methods, results and implications
   for future research. The committee will also review proposed federal
   research plans, initiatives, procurements, grant programs and other
   activities regarding Gulf War-associated illnesses.

   The committee will be led by James H. Binns Jr., a Vietnam veteran,
   former principal deputy assistant secretary of defense, and chairman of
   the board of Parallel Design, Inc., of Tempe, Arizona, acquired by
   General Electric in December 2000.

   The advisory committee will be assisted by an expert panel of
   scientists and subject matter authorities who will add additional
   expertise, functioning as an auxiliary that reviews committee findings
   and provides expert guidance to the committee and the Secretary.

   Membership of Research Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans'
   Illnesses And Expert Panel

   · James H. Binns Jr., Chairman,
   · Dr. Nicola Cherry, Professor of Public Health Sciences at the
   University of Alberta,
   · Dr. Beatrice Golomb, assistant professor of medicine at the
   University of California at San Diego,
   · Dr. Robert Haley, chief of the epidemiology division of the
   University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas,
   · Marguerite Knox, nurse practitioner, Hopkins, S.C.,
   · Dr. William J. Meggs, chief of the division of toxicology of the East
   Carolina University School of Medicine,
   · Jack Melling, Ph.D., director of the Karl Landsteiner Institute for
   Vaccine Development in Vienna, Austria,
   · Dr. Pierre Pellier, vice president, neurosciences, global medical
   affairs, with GlaxoSmithKline, Inc.,
   · Lea Steele, Ph.D., director, Kansas Persian Gulf War Veterans Health
   Initiative and former epidemiologist with the U.S. Centers for Disease
   Control and Prevention,
   · Joel C. Graves, an Army Gulf War veteran fromWashington state,
   · Stephen L. Robinson, executive director of the National Gulf War
   Resources Center; Silver Spring, Md.,
   · Steve Smithson, assistant director of the Gulf War Task Force for the
   American Legion, Indianapolis, Ind.

   The Expert Panel

   · Dr. Ira B. Black, chairman, department of neuroscience and cell
   biology at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, N.J.,
   · Dr. Joseph T. Coyle, Eben S. Draper professor of psychiatry and
   neuroscience, Harvard Medical School, Belmont, Mass.,
    Dr. Floyd E. Bloom, chair, department of neuropharmacology, Scripps
   Research Institute, La Jolla, Calif.,
   · Dr. Eugene Johnson, professor, department of neurology, Washington
   University, St. Louis, Mo.,
   · Dr. Marsel Mesulam, director, The Cognitative Neurology and
   Alzheimer's Disease Center, Northwestern University Medical School,
   Chicago,
   · James J. Tuite, III, chief operating officer, Chronix Biomedical,
   Inc., Benicia, Calif.,
   · Dr. Bailus Walker, Jr., professor of environmental and occupational
   medicine, Howard University, Washington, D.C.

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 24, 2002
   EX-POW John Creighton Carries the Olympic Torch

   This will be the second torch run for John Creighton, who participated
   in the 1996 relay for the Atlanta Games. This time he will take the
   torch from a familiar face -- his daughter Vicki, who nominated him in
   1996 and 2002 and who was asked by the committee to run this time.

   John Creighton spent 31/2 years as a prisoner of war in the Philippines
   during World War II and in 1995 was awarded the Bronze Star for
   military service. Each year, the Rotary Club awards two scholarships to
   Olympia High School students in his name, the John G. Creighton
   Citizenship award.

   "I think it's very much an honor to do this, and like I did last time,
   I'd like to dedicate this to the memory of the Bataan death march,"
   said Creighton.


                              [POWTorch01.JPG]

      A crowd of friends and realatives await John and Vicki's arrival.


                             [POWTorch03.JPG]

        The Olympic bus brings John to his designated starting spot.

                              [POWTorch04.JPG]

        Army personnel and fellow Ex-POW members with John Creighton.

                             [POWTorch05.JPG]

       Vicki is nearing the spot to hand-off the torch to her father.

                              [POWTorch06.JPG]

               John starts his section of the torch's journey.

                              [POWtorch07.JPG]

            John is escorted by Megan, an alternate torch bearer.


                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 25, 2002

   $29,425 awarded to assist with veterans memorials
   Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee approves funding

   Olympia -
   Nine projects paying tribute to living and deceased veterans in
   Washington State have received funding from the Veterans Remembrance
   Emblem Fund administered by The Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee
   (VAAC).

   The following groups were approved for funding, which totaled $29,425:
   American Legion Post 66 in Edmonds - $1,424 to be used for enhancing
   the veterans monument located next to the South Snohomish County
   Historical Museum;
   NW Chapter Paralyzed Veterans of America - $3,500 for the purpose of
   repairing and repainting the Veterans Chimes Tower at Evergreen
   Washelli Veterans Cemetery in Seattle;
   Sunrise Rotary Club of Silverdale - $3,500 to help build a Veterans
   Memorial in Silverdale;
   Puyallup Heritage Art Foundation - $3,500 to help with the building of
   a War Memorial at Grayland Park in Puyallup;
   Jesse L. Colley American Legion Post 195 - $3,500 to assist with the
   construction of a Veterans Memorial at Mountainview Cemetery in
   Connell;
   Lakewood Veterans Memorial Committee - $3,500 to be used towards the
   building of a Veterans Memorial at the new City Hall in Lakewood;
   Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 11326 in Cheney - $3,500 to repair and
   upgrade the Cheney City Park Veterans Memorial built in 1924;
   Island Art for Veterans - $3,500 to help with building of a Veterans
   Memorial Plaza at the Law and Justice building in Coupeville;
   Benaroya Hall - $3,500 to assist with replacing a wall panel and adding
   names of veterans killed in action.

   The Emblem Fund permits eligible veterans to purchase and display
   approved decals on their vehicle license plates through the Department
   of Licensing, with net fees being deposited in a special account held
   by the state treasurer.

   RCW 46.16.332 allows disbursement of these funds by the VAAC, for
   direct costs of contracting, contract administration and project
   administration related to: projects that pay tribute to living and
   deceased veterans; upkeep and operations of existing memorials and;
   land acquisition and construction of new memorials.

   The VAAC - under the leadership of Chair Oria Berndt - is composed of
   17 members and advises the governor and the director of the Department
   of Veterans Affairs on issues and programs concerning veterans.

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 22, 2002
   NEWS ADVISORY: Military Veterans Fair at CWU in Ellensburg- Feb. 9
   Information and Assistance Available to public

   Ellensburg
   - The Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs (WDVA) will be
   holding a Veterans Information and Assistance Fair from 9:00 a.m. to
   3:00 p.m., Saturday, February 9 at the Central Washington University
   HUB, 400 E. 8th St. in Ellensburg.

   Veterans and their families are encouraged to come by, where federal,
   state, county, city, public and private organizations will be available
   to provide information to the public on veterans benefits and services.

   A special Service Officer training will be held at the same location on
   Friday, Feb. 8, from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. for Veterans Service
   Organizations who assist veterans with questions and claims.

   Who:
   Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs
   What:    Veterans Information and Assistance Fair
   When:   Saturday, Feb. 9   9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
   Where:  Central Washington University - HUB  400 E. 8th St. Ellensburg
   Contact: Lonnie James, Veterans Community Service Coordinator, 509-
   457-2790, e-mail - lonniej@dva.wa.gov

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 17, 2002 - VA News Release
   VA Signs Agreement for Hispanic Employment

   WASHINGTON - Secretary of Veterans Affairs Anthony J. Principi today
   signed a partnership agreement with the Interamerican College of
   Physicians and Surgeons (ICPS) to recruit, train and retain Hispanics
   in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).

   "VA recognizes the need for a diverse workforce to take care of our
   diverse veterans population," Principi said. "With this partnership, VA
   is taking an important step toward meeting that need."

   The agreement provides a framework for a relationship between VA and
   ICPS. It will allow ICPS to advise VA, recommending policies,
   procedures, programs and services for the employment of qualified
   Hispanics. In turn, VA will receive access to ICPS's membership
   database for recruiting and for simplifying the application process.

   "This partnership will allow us to recruit aggressively where we have
   the greatest need - not only for diversity, but more importantly for
   qualified professionals," Principi said.

   ICPS is the largest association of Hispanic physicians in the country,
   with 39,000 members in the continental United States and Puerto Rico.

   Dr. Rene Rodriguez, ICPS president and chief executive officer, signed
   the partnership agreement on behalf of the association.

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 17, 2002 -VA News Release
   VA Launches Four Hepatitis C Centers

   WASHINGTON -- In its continuing efforts to provide care to more than
   80,000 veterans infected with hepatitis C, the Department of Veterans
   Affairs (VA) on Jan. 1, 2002, funded four new centers to evaluate and
   improve hepatitis C screening, testing, clinical care and education.

   "These new centers will enhance VA's ability to respond to a large and
   growing public health problem," said Dr. Frances Murphy, deputy under
   secretary for health. "They will spearhead efforts to improve care,
   educate veterans and health care professionals, and evaluate current
   programs. Ultimately, these efforts will benefit all Americans affected
   by hepatitis C."

   Each of the centers will receive annual funding of up to $500,000 for
   five years, plus start-up costs. The centers are located at
   Minneapolis, San Francisco, West Haven, Conn., and Seattle, in
   conjunction with the Portland, Ore. VA medical center.

   "VA screens, tests and treats more people with hepatitis C than anyone
   else in the country," said Dr. Lawrence Deyton, director of the Public
   Health Strategic Health Care Group (PHSHG), which oversees VA's
   hepatitis C program. "Even so, VA continues to explore new ways to
   improve its programs. These new centers will function as field-based
   clinical laboratories to evaluate current practices and develop new
   tools for improving the quality of care."

   The new centers build on the success of the previous Centers of
   Excellence in Hepatitis C program, established by VA in 1999. VA also
   regularly cooperates in many veteran outreach partnerships, conducts
   extensive research and sponsors educational conferences.

   "VA has been and continues to be a leader in hepatitis C programs in
   the U.S.," said Dr. Michael Rigsby, Director, HIV and Hepatitis C
   Programs, PHSHG. "In the past several years, VA has educated providers,
   including updating and distributing treatment guidelines and clinical
   protocols, hosting national symposiums, setting up a Web site with
   information for both clinicians and patients, holding a nationwide
   teleconference and launching a cooperative study involving 26 medical
   centers."

   "VA is in an extraordinary position to continue to lead the way in this
   rapidly changing area of health care and the new centers will play a
   critical role," said Murphy.

   To learn more about hepatitis C in VA, see www.va.gov/hepatitisC

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 17, 2002
   Informational meeting with Federal VA Official to discuss
   State Cemetery Grants - Feb. 7 in Spokane

   Spokane - Bill Jayne, director of the Department of Veterans Affairs
   State Cemeteries Grant Program in Washington, D.C., will be at the St.
   Luke’s Rehabilitation Center on Thursday, Feb. 7 to discuss
   requirements for state cemetery grant applications and to answer
   questions the public may have related to this issue.

   The meeting will be held at 2:00 p.m. in room 200. The rehab center,
   located at 711 S. Cowley St. in Spokane, is adjacent to the new Spokane
   Veterans Home and all interested persons are invited to attend.

   The VA State Cemetery Grants Program was established in 1978 to
   complement VA’s National Cemetery Administration by assisting states in
   providing gravesites for veterans in areas where VA’s national
   cemeteries cannot fully satisfy their burial needs.

   Cemeteries established under the grant program must conform to the
   standards and guidelines pertaining to site selection, planning and
   construction set forth by VA.

   St. Luke’s Rehabilitation Center
   711 S. Cowley St, Room 200
   Spokane WA
   February 7, 2002
   2:00 p.m.

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   Seattle Veterans Museum --Press Release Oct. 20, 2001

   This press release is to announce the establishment of the Seattle
   Veterans Museum non-profit corporation. This all-volunteer organization
   was incorporated and registered with the State of Washington on Oct.
   11, 2001. It's goals and purposes are:
    1. To educate the general public through the collection, research,
       preservation and exhibition of artifacts, personal accounts and
       historical facts relating to the history of America's involvement
       in armed conflicts to preserve this nation's and the world's
       freedom.
    2. To inform the public of the tremendous price our veterans have paid
       for our freedom through their service, hard work, emotional and
       physical sufferings, deprivations, injuries, and deaths.
    3. To establish and maintain a museum for the inspiration,
       preservation and presentation of the memory of all America's
       veterans and of their sacrifice for America's freedom.
    4. To outwardly express our Nation's heartfelt gratitude to all our
       honorable veterans for their service and dedication to our Country.
    5. To promote any activities that will enhance or support the purpose
       of the Museum.
    6. To direct all museum operations, improvements, fund raising
       activities and hold in trust all funds designated for the Museum
       and its operations.

   The organization has actually been operating in the Seattle area since
   Sept 2000, conducting displays and presentations at public events to
   recognize and thank our veterans, and to educate Americans about our
   military history and the sacrifices all our veterans have made over the
   past 225 years for this country and our freedoms. The museum has no
   permanent location as yet, but does have a large collection of military
   antiques from the US Civil War to Desert Storm, which are on loan from
   one of its members. The museum also displays many items that have been
   donated from local veterans.

   The Seattle Veterans Museum is seeking volunteers to help with future
   displays and fund raising events, as well as individuals with
   experience in directing organizations and/or fundraising to serve as
   Board members.

   We have applied for 501c3 status as a tax-deductible charity and have
   already begun our first fund raising campaign to seek contributions
   from Washington individuals, organizations and corporations.

   The Seattle Veterans Museum is pleased to announce our next major
   public display will be at the Museum of Flight on Veteran's Day, Sunday
   November 11. We will have numerous tables displaying actual military
   artifacts from the Civil War through Desert Storm, as well as
   mannequins out-fitted with WWI, WWII, Korean War, and Vietnam War
   uniforms and military gear.

   Anyone interested in volunteering, donating or seeking more information
   can call 425-821-0489, or write to:
   SEATTLE VETERANS MUSEUM
   P.O. Box 82333
   Kenmore, WA 98028

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 15, 2001
   NCOA Donates Funds Enhancing Homes' Programs

   The National Non-Commissioned Officers Association recently presented
   Retsil and Orting with checks (totaling almost $10,000.00) to purchase
   new equipment identified to enhance the facilities quality of care for
   residents. Oria Berndt, NCOA Reg. Rep.; Bob Jones; Dale Colbert, Retsil
   VAAC Rep.; and John King.

   At WVH, a motorized screen and projector for the auditorium will be
   purchased. The 78" by 139" screen will be ceiling mounted and used for
   movie matinees and to augment BINGO, for those residents with vision
   difficulties. In addition, it will eliminate the need to rent the
   equipment for special events such as Memorial Day and Veterans Day
   programs.

   Oria Berndt, NCOA Reg. Rep.; Jerry Towne; Rupert Markham, Orting VAAC
   Rep.; and John King.


   At WSH, a special cart, called a Snoezelen A la Carte, has been chosen.
   Snoezelen, a term marrying the Dutch words for "sniff" and "doze", was
   developed in Holland more than a decade ago as a way to provide
   relaxation and recreation for people with sensory and learning
   disabilities. The Snoezelen engages all five senses at once, and can be
   used to either provide sensory stimulation or destimulation and
   relaxation. Staff at Orting has already identified many uses for the
   cart, with Nursing using it at night to comfort residents, and Social
   Services, Therapy and Recreation staff already lining up beneficial
   uses for daytime activities.

   We are grateful for the patronage of NCOA, both past and present, and
   for the ability to enhance the lives of our residents with their gift.

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 10, 2002

     Veterans Benefits To Increase By 2.6 Percent

   WASHINGTON - Veterans receiving monthly benefits from the Department of
   Veterans Affairs (VA) can expect a 2.6 percent increase in their
   service-connected disability compensation or pension payment.

   The cost-of-living adjustment also applies to survivors of veterans
   receiving death pension or dependency and indemnity compensation.

   The 2.6 percent increase was included in compensation payments
   beginning December 31, 2001. The Veterans' Compensation Rate Amendments
   of 2001 bill signed into law last month by President Bush set the
   amount of the increase. As it has in the past, Congress based the
   increase in veterans' benefits on the cost-of-living adjustment granted
   to Social Security recipients.

   More than 2.3 million veterans receive service-connected disability
   compensation each month for injuries or illnesses connected with their
   military service. Under the new rates, veterans will receive monthly
   payments ranging from $103 to $2,163 depending on the severity of their
   disability. Factors such as additional compensation for dependents and
   housebound veterans can also raise the payment level beyond $2,163
   monthly for the individual veteran.

   Another 348,000 people benefiting from the increase are those receiving
   VA pensions. These are wartime veterans who are permanently and totally
   disabled from injuries or diseases not related to their military
   service.

   The cost-of-living increase also applies to the VA payments to
   survivors of veterans who died while in the military or after discharge
   from a service-connected condition, as well as to survivors of wartime
   veterans who qualify for VA pensions. There are nearly 581,000 spouses,
   children and parents of veterans who receive monthly payments under
   these programs.

   Charts with new rates and general information about benefits for
   veterans are available at www.vba.va.gov .

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 10, 2002 VA News Release

                 VA Improves Benefits For Filipino Veterans

   WASHINGTON - More than a thousand Filipinos who served alongside U.S.
   forces in World War II and who live in the United States today as
   citizens or permanent resident aliens will see their disability
   payments double under a new policy providing equality in veterans
   compensation.

   For these Filipinos meeting specific criteria, compensation for
   service-connected disabilities from the U.S. Department of Veterans
   Affairs (VA) previously was limited to half the rate of that paid to
   U.S. veterans. Under an interim final regulation published Dec. 27,
   their compensation doubles and in death, survivors of the
   service-connected Filipino veterans covered by the rule or certain
   lower-income veterans now will receive burial or plot allowances at the
   full rate rather than the half rate.

   "The new policy recognizes that Filipinos residing in the U.S. have a
   higher cost of living -- or cost of burial -- than those living in the
   Philippines," VA Secretary Anthony J. Principi said. "This recognizes
   the service and sacrifice of our Philippine comrades while providing
   this higher compensation while they are residing in the U.S."

   Many Filipinos were ordered into World War II service when the
   Philippines was a U.S. commonwealth, but various limitations on their
   eligibility for U.S. benefits evolved from the two governments'
   determination of mutual responsibilities as the Philippines became a
   sovereign nation in 1946, enacting its own broad range of veterans
   benefits.

   The new regulation already is in effect but could be amended following
   a comment period that extends through February 25.

   For those Filipinos who would have qualified continuously since the
   time of the law's enactment and during the period the implementing
   regulations were developed, benefits will be paid retroactively to Oct.
   27, 2000. VA will notify eligible veterans and automatically increase
   their payments appropriately.

   The new regulation defines U.S. residence for these veterans as
   requiring an actual dwelling place and not just a post office box. The
   veteran must be present in the U.S. for at least the majority of each
   year and not outside the country for more than 60 consecutive days.

   The new benefits are available only to those who acquire U.S.
   citizenship or who are lawfully admitted for permanent residence. VA
   will rely on Immigration and Naturalization Service verification of
   status as a permanent resident alien.

   Filipino veterans affected by the new policies are those who served
   before July 1, 1946, in the organized military forces of the government
   of the Commonwealth of the Philippines while under the military order
   of President Roosevelt. That includes organized guerrilla forces under
   commanders designated by the U.S. military.

   Payment of full-rate burial benefits is limited to the survivors of
   similarly eligible Filipino veterans who were residing in the U.S. at
   the time of death and either were a U.S. citizen or lawfully admitted
   for pemanent residence in the U.S. Burial allowances are available only
   to veterans who at the time of death had a service-connected disability
   or whose limited means met income and net worth requirements.

   Information about these and other veterans benefits is available from
   the VA toll-free at 1-800-827-1000 or at the VA Web site at www.va.gov.

                               [apasrule.gif]

   Jan. 7, 2001
   Yakima site of Military Veterans Fair - Jan. 18

   Information and Assistance Available to public

   Yakima - The Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs (WDVA)
   will be holding a Veterans Information and Assistance Fair from 9:00
   a.m. to 3:00 p.m., Friday, January 18 at the VFW Post #379, 118 S. 5th
   Ave. in Yakima.

   Veterans and their families are encouraged to come by, where federal,
   state, county, city, public and private organizations will be available
   to provide information to the public on veterans benefits and services.

   Who:      Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs
   What:     Veterans Information and Assistance Fair
   When:     Friday, Jan. 18
                  9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
   Where:   VFW Post #379
                 118 S. 5th Ave.
                 Yakima
   Contact: Lonnie James, Veterans Community Service Coordinator, 4th
   Congressional District, 509- 457-2790, e-mail - lonniej@dva.wa.gov.

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   Jan. 6, 2002
   Put VA cards on must-do list
   'Valentines for Vets' deserves even better response this year, Ann
   Landers says.

   Ann Landers - Creators Syndicate

   Dear Ann Landers:
   Every February, Americans open their hearts to our country's
   hospitalized veterans by sending cards and letters to Department of
   Veterans Affairs (VA) medical centers across the country through your
   "Valentines for Vets" program. Over the years, millions of your readers
   have demonstrated their appreciation of our nation's veterans by
   sending them valentines during the National Salute to Hospitalized
   Veterans. Also, hundreds of teachers take this opportunity yearly to
   educate their students about our veterans and visit them in person at
   VA facilities. I cannot tell you how much these thoughtful gestures
   have meant to our honored veterans.

   Approximately 3.4 million of our veterans receive health care in VA
   facilities annually, and another 2.8 million receive other VA benefits.
   As a result of your column last year, nearly 900,000 valentines were
   delivered to VA medical centers, and more than 73,000 patients were
   visited by members of the community. We are hoping for an even bigger
   response from your readers this year, due to the increased wave of
   patriotism sweeping the country following the terrorist attacks of
   Sept. 11.

   I would like to urge all of your readers to take a little time out of
   their busy schedules to contact a VA medical center Voluntary Services
   office and find out how they can assist our country's most-honored
   heroes.

   In 2002, the National Salute to Hospitalized Veterans will be observed
   the week of Feb. 10-17, which includes Valentine's Day. Addresses of
   our facilities can be obtained from local telephone directories, by
   calling the VA toll-free number at 1-800-827-1000 or by accessing the
   VA Web site at www.va.gov/volunteer.

   Thank you, Ann, for your generosity and support of our nation's
   veterans. Sincerely yours, -- Anthony J. Principi, Secretary of
   Veterans Affairs, Washington, D.C.

   Dear Secretary Principi:
   I've always known that my readers are the most warmhearted, responsive
   people in the world. When I ask them to do something, they come through
   like champions.

   It's time once again to let our veterans know we appreciate them. It
   won't cost a lot, and it's sure to bring enormous pleasure to our vets,
   to whom we owe so much.

   On any given day, there are approximately 187,000 veterans treated
   through the 172 Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers
   nationwide. These men and women served in World War I, World War II,
   Korea, Vietnam, the Persian Gulf, Bosnia, Kosovo and all the places
   where our soldiers have been sent around the world. These soldiers
   represent every race, color and creed. We now have soldiers in
   Afghanistan who may one day need the services of our VA medical
   centers. We can never repay these valiant vets for the sacrifices they
   have made, but we can do something to cheer them up and let them know
   that they have not been forgotten.

   Thousands of Salvation Army volunteers distribute valentines and gifts
   to various VA facilities around the country. Camp Fire Boys and Girls
   have been giving valentines to our veterans for quite some time. God
   bless them. This year, the National Headache Foundation will be
   delivering giant cards and cakes to VA hospitals across America,
   including Chicago, Los Angeles and New York.

   Teachers, you have always been extremely helpful and supportive. I'm
   depending on you once more to make this a class project. Those handmade
   valentines are real heartwarmers, especially the ones made by the
   younger students. Please encourage your students to be creative, and
   let them learn firsthand the satisfaction that comes from doing
   something for others.

   This year, please make a special effort to drop off your valentines in
   person. It means so much to the veterans when you take the extra time
   to visit and say hello. I know of nothing you can do that would cost so
   little and bring so much happiness to the men and women who were
   willing to lay down their lives for us. They deserve to be remembered.
   Thank you all and God bless. -- Ann Landers

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 4, 2002
   Fed VA approves $30.7 million construction grant

   Retsil to receive new nursing facility for veterans

   Olympia -
   The Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs has received
   approval of a $30.7 million construction grant from the U.S. Department
   of Veterans Affairs.

   These funds - combined with a 35% match in state funds - will provide
   the capital needed to replace a 240-bed nursing home facility at the
   State Veterans Home in Retsil.

   “Not only is this wonderful news for the state’s 649,000 veterans, it
   will also provide a boost for the state economy as construction
   begins,” said WDVA Director John King. “This is a step in the right
   direction when it comes to providing a first-class continuum of care to
   those veterans willing to sacrifice for our freedom.”

   State funds were approved during the 2001 legislative session after the
   department undertook a master planning process, mandated by the
   legislature in 1999, to address the following:


   (1) A forecast of the future demand for nursing, assisted living,
   domiciliary, and community-based rehabilitative care by the state's
   veterans, based upon the projected age, sex, marital, and income
   composition of that population;

   (2) An assessment of the most cost-effective role for the state to play
   in addressing such demand;

   (3) A comprehensive analysis of the programmatic, community, capital,
   and operating costs and benefits of consolidating western Washington
   veterans home operations, including proposed alternative uses for the
   other campus if operations are consolidated;

   (4) An assessment of alternatives for providing skilled nursing and
   assisted living services in eastern Washington; and

   (5) An assessment of the feasibility, costs, and benefits of
   alternative strategies for providing rehabilitative care to younger
   veterans, such as those now served in the state-operated domiciliary
   units.

   In response to the legislative mandates and to meet the needs of the
   changing veteran population, the department’s master plan proposes to
   consolidate long-term care at the Washington Veterans Home at Retsil by
   building a new, 240-bed skilled nursing facility to replace current
   skilled beds at Retsil and Orting.

   Program development has also begun on the rehabilitative care program,
   which will be located at the Washington Soldiers Home and Colony at
   Orting. A report will be delivered to the legislature by September 1,
   2002 containing details of the transition program including costs and
   funding assumptions.

   Go to Master Plan for more information.

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   January 3, 2002
   Gerald McRaney Helps VA Recruit Volunteers, Recognize Veterans

   WASHINGTON - Accomplished stage and television actor Gerald McRaney has
   teamed up with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to honor
   hospitalized veterans and promote volunteerism at VA medical centers.

   McRaney, who first became widely known to his television audiences for
   his role as Rick Simon, private investigator, in the TV series Simon
   and Simon, will chair VA's 2002 National Salute to Hospitalized
   Veterans campaign, an annual recognition of the men and women who once
   served in military uniform. This year it will be marked by community
   activities around the country Feb. 10-16 at VA health care facilities.

   "Through his role as a U.S. Marine in the TV series Major Dad, Gerald
   McRaney understands the commitment made by veterans and he values their
   contribution to the country," VA Secretary Anthony J. Principi said.
   "We are pleased to have his talents and support as VA medical centers
   around the country showcase volunteer opportunities."

   Approximately 100,000 volunteers contribute millions of hours a year
   helping hospitalized veterans with their compassion and attention to
   individual veterans' needs.

   Serving as their spokesman during the National Salute, McRaney's duties
   as national chairman will extend beyond the week of February 10. He has
   agreed to visit hospitalized veterans throughout the year.

   “I am deeply honored to be asked to serve our nation’s veterans,” said
   McRaney. “While we have troops deployed now, we must not forget the
   ones who gave us the freedom we already have. I hope that Americans
   everywhere will answer the call to volunteer their time to care for
   those veterans confined to hospital wards.”

   The national event is timed to coincide with Valentine's Day because
   the sentiments of caring and sharing match the salute's purpose of
   expressing honor and appreciation to veterans.

   With the additional support of columnist Ann Landers, newspaper
   readers, classroom students, scout troops and others annually generate
   more than a million "Valentines for Veterans" cards and letters to
   local VA medical centers and nursing homes to express gratitude for
   veterans' service to their country.

   Community and state officials, military and veterans organizations and
   youth groups often join with the public during the National Salute week
   to visit patients in VA hospitals, nursing homes, state veterans homes
   and other facilities.

   Members of the public are encouraged to call their local VA health care
   facilities to participate in activities during the 2002 National Salute
   to Hospitalized Veterans. At VA medical centers, they should ask for
   the voluntary service office, which coordinates the activities.

   McRaney is a strong supporter of the men and women serving in the U.S.
   armed forces. During the Gulf War, he visited troops in Saudi Arabia as
   part of the United Service Organizations (USO). Since then, he has been
   an active celebrity supporter of the USO, visiting U.S. troops in
   Bosnia, Haiti and Somalia. In April 2000, he received USO's Merit
   award.

   McRaney grew up in Mississippi and studied at the University of
   Mississippi, where he majored in drama and appeared in several stage
   productions. Leaving his studies, he found the road to success
   difficult. He joined the New Orleans repertory company and credits his
   work on the stage for preparing him for his later success in
   television.

   McRaney has three children, Jessica, Angus and Katy, and lives in Los
   Angeles with his wife, actress Delta Burke.

   ^Top

                               [apasrule.gif]

   NEWS ADVISORY: Veterans Fair to be held at Green River College - Auburn
   - Jan. 14
   Information and Assistance Available to public

   Auburn
   - The Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs (WDVA) will be
   holding a Veterans Information and Assistance Fair from 8:00 a.m. to
   8:00 p.m., Monday, January 14 at the Green River College in Auburn.

   Veterans and their families are encouraged to come by, where federal,
   state, county, city, public and private organizations will be available
   to provide information to the public on veterans benefits and services.

   Who:
   Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs
   What:     Veterans Information and Assistance Fair
   When:    Monday, Jan. 14
                  8:00 a.m. - 8:00 p.m.
   Where:  Green River College
                 12401 SE 320th
                 Auburn, WA
   Contact: Cherise McArthur, Veterans Community Service Coordinator, 360-
   478-4565, e-mail - cherisem@dva.wa.gov
