http://lunar.arc.nasa.gov/results/index.htm

   The javascript on this page is used to preload the images for links and
   to swap the images used for links

   go to content
   layout image go to introduction
   go to introduction to instruments Go to alpha particle spectrometer Go
   to Electron Reflectometer Go to gamma ray spectrometer go to
   magnetometer go to neutron spectrometer go to doppler gravity
   spectrometer go to scientists go to ice on the moon go to Further
   Reading layout image
   Layout image go to home
   go to project go to results Go to datavis go to history Go to science
   Go to education Go to archives go to resources

                                INTRODUCTION

   Intro to Instruments This section gives a brief overview of each of the
   major instruments on board Lunar Prospector.

   Alpha Spectrometer Learn more about what this instrument does, and what
   the results from this instrument are.

   Electron Reflectometer Learn more about this instrument, and what
   scientists have found using it.

   Magnetometer Learn more about this instrument, and what the results
   were from the experiment it was used in.

   Neutron Spectrometer Learn more about how this instrument works, and
   what results scientists have found using it..

   Doppler Gravity Experiment Learn more about this experiment, which used
   the whole spacecraft as the instrument.

   Scientists Who are the scientists that run the Lunar Prospector
   program, and what is their involvment in the program? Learn the answers
   to these questions here.

   Ice on Moon One of the biggest questions was whether there is water
   onthe moon or not. What have scientists found and how have they found
   it?

   Further ReadingGet more information about topics in this section.

                                       MENU
       Home | Project | Results | Datavis | History | Science | Education |
                               Archives | Resources

                                      SUBMENU
            Introduction | Introduction to Instruments | Alpha Particle
                                   Spectrometer
          Electron Reflectometer | Gamma Ray Spectrometer | Magnetometer
         Neutron Spectrometer | Doppler Gravity Spectrometer | Scientists
                         Ice on the Moon | Further Reading


        Contact Information
   Last Updated: October 2, 2001
