http://www-orca.nos.noaa.gov/spo/projects/projects.html

   SPO Home

   NOAA Home
   NOS Home
   Line Graphic
   Site Map
   Search
   Line Graphic
   News & Events
   Projects
   Programs
   Line Graphic
   Publications & Products
   cd-roms
   datasets
   publications
   webpages
   Line Graphic
   SPO Employees
   Contact Us

                           Milestones and Projects

   SPO 1 - Marine Protected Areas: Provide direct support for numerous
   NOAA and NOS programs and projects related to marine protected areas.
   In FY01, the Special Projects Office will continue and expand its
   support for marine protected areas.  This expansion of support is due
   primarily to NOAA's and NOS' role in implementing Executive Order (EO)
   13158 which directs the federal government to significantly strengthen
   and expand the national system of marine protected areas (MPAs). In
   this EO, NOAA was given primary responsibility (with DOI) for
   implementation; NOS is the lead NOAA office. Shortly after the EO was
   signed, SPO was asked to carry out two specific functions of the order:
   the inventory of MPAs and the MPA Web site.  The EO stipulates that a
   status report be given to the President in October 2000, but work will
   continue throughout the year in support of the new Marine Protected
   Area Center. Both the inventory and the Web site are significant and
   highly visible projects. These activities are complemented by several
   international efforts in cooperation with the International Programs
   Office. These are the official Web sites of the World Commission on
   Protected Areas (WCPA) and the Marine Protected Areas theme area of the
   WCPA. Additionally, SPO is continuing its support for the National
   Marine Sanctuaries Program (NMSP) with numerous projects including
   support for the Management Plan Revision process, the site selection
   and evaluation process, potential Central California sanctuary boundary
   changes, prototype 3-D fly-throughs, assistance with an enforcement
   database, support for the family of NMSP and Sustainable Seas
   Expeditions Web offerings, and support for the proposed designation of
   the Florida Keys as a Particularly Sensitive Sea Area recognized by the
   International Maritime Organization.

   SPO 2  - Coastal Assessment: Develop, analyze, and report on
   information related to the health and sustainability of the nation’s
   coastal areas.
   Projects associated with this milestone include activities to build
   foundation data sets for coastal analysis, such as the Coastal
   Assessment and Data Synthesis System, Coral Reef Mapping, and the
   Estuarine Restoration Plan Inventory; efforts to develop decision
   support and spatial analysis tools for coastal managers, such as the
   Delaware Environmental Indicator System, the Spatial Planning and
   Analysis Tool (SPLAT), and the Coral Reef Information System; projects
   to improve communication about priority coastal management issues, such
   as the State of the Coast Web site, the Southern California Coastal
   Information System, the CWAP Coastal Conditions Report, and the
   Watershed Watchers network; and efforts to assess better approaches for
   the delivery of NOS products and services such as the Coastal
   Environmental Monitoring Committee and the NOS Nutrient Synergy Team.

   SPO 3 - Valuing the Coast (Socioeconomics): Develop and provide
   information to the nation on socioeconomic characteristics and
   use-values of U.S. marine protected areas and coastal resources.
   Working with internal and external partners, develop data sets, models
   and reports on socioeconomic conditions in coastal areas. Major FY01
   projects include:
   * The National Survey on Recreation and the Environment (NSRE) 2000  In
   FY2000, a survey of 50,000 households was begun to gather information
   on outdoor recreation uses of coastal and ocean resources to help plan
   for meeting the Nation’s demand for use of coastal and ocean resources.
   In FY2000, over 30,000 interviews were completed and preliminary
   reports developed on portions of the information. In FY01, the survey
   will be completed, and reports will quantify the nation’s demand for
   outdoor recreational uses of coastal and ocean resources. Data and
   documentation will be made available to other researchers.
   * Socioeconomic Monitoring Program for the Florida Keys National Marine
   Sanctuary (FKNMS)  This project involves continued monitoring to detect
   and document changes in sanctuary use patterns and their impact on
   market and nonmarket economic values of sanctuary resources. FY01 is
   the third year of monitoring the commercial fisheries. From information
   gathered over the previous two years, the hypothesis of short-run
   losses to commercial fisheries due to the implementation of "no-take
   areas" will be tested and reported at the Sanctuary Zone Performance
   meeting in Feb. '01. Also, reports will be developed for a five-year
   update on importance/satisfaction ratings for 25 natural resource
   attributes and facilities (pre- and post- sanctuary establishment).
   Baseline estimates will also be developed for "no-take area" use and
   the economic values of artificial and natural reefs. New methods of
   estimating the use of individual "no take area" use will be tested and
   implemented if found to be affordable.
   * South Florida Artificial and Natural Reef Valuation Project  This
   project will estimate the market and nonmarket economic values of both
   artificial and natural reefs in South Florida. In FY2000, partnerships
   were formed with the State of Florida, four county governments, and
   local businesses. OMB clearances were received and surveys begun. The
   summer visitor and resident surveys were completed. In FY01, winter
   visitor surveys will be completed, as well as all analyses and reports.
   Some elements of the Socioeconomic Monitoring Program for the FKNMS
   were integrated into this effort.
   * Economic Valuation of Southern California Beaches  The project will
   conduct surveys of beach users and develop models to illustrate how
   both market and nonmarket economic values would change with changes in
   water quality, and other natural beach attributes, facilities, and user
   characteristics. This information will support investment decisions to
   protect and improve water quality in the region, as well as in damage
   assessment and restoration efforts. In FY 2000, a survey panel was
   formed, and every two months, 700-900 participants were surveyed about
   their beach use. Four two-month surveys were completed for Orange and
   Los Angeles County beaches. In FY01, the last two two-month surveys
   will be completed, and models and reports completed. Data collection
   efforts will also begin for San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Ventura and
   San Diego counties because the U.S. Department of the Interior,
   Minerals Management Service and the CA State Water Resources Control
   Board have added funding to extend the study to other California
   regions.
   * Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary (CINMS) Management Plan
   Revision  SPO will assist the CINMS by providing leadership for the
   socioeconomic assessments required in revising the management plan. SPO
   is leading the Socioeconomic Panel and has primary responsibility for
   developing the socioeconomic impact analyses for the proposed Marine
   Reserve(s) and for Boundary Expansion. This will involve completing
   socioeconomic impact analyses to be included in the EIS/Management
   Plan, Regulatory Impact Review, Initial and Final Regulatory
   Flexibility Analyses, and Community Impact analyses per the Magnuson
   Act (National Standards 8 and 9). It is expected that drafts will be
   done in FY01, with final completion in FY2002.

   SPO 4 - NOS Mission Support: Provide support to NOS in promoting the
   Coastal Stewardship Mission
   The activities contained in this milestone cut across NOS program and
   staff offices. The passage of the Oceans Act will provide an
   opportunity for NOS to have an active role in the Commission’s
   activities, and SPO will support this evolving initiative as required.
   SPO continues its support of NOS transition planning. SPO also will
   continue to provide support for the development of Performance Measures
   for the Sustained Healthy Coasts goal. Updates to the NOS MapFinder
   capability are planned, as well as the maintenance of several Web
   offerings, including the NOS, Advanced Technologies, and Coastal
   Volunteer Web sites. Development of a Web mapping capability will
   continue, and Web video news products will be designed.

   SPO 5 - Ocean Exploration: Facilitate, plan and execute several
   projects in support of the Federal Ocean Exploration Directive.
   Projects contained in this milestone include the ongoing Sustainable
   Seas Expeditions; an expedition to the Gulf of Mexico escarpments in
   conjunction with WHOI, Texas A&M University, and NURP; a
   saturation-dive mission to the Aquarius undersea habitat in
   collaboration with the Institute for Exploration (JASON); and an
   interagency effort with NASA to share information on outer space and
   undersea technologies, with special focus on their application to
   exploration and research. Specific activities include cruise planning
   and executing at-sea operations; product development based on the
   results of undersea research; increasing NOAA's in-house manned and
   unmanned submersible capabilities; enhancing NOAA partnerships with
   institutions that conduct deep sea exploration and research; Web site
   development and other methods of disseminating information for
   education and public outreach; improvements to submersible tracking and
   navigation systems; the development of detailed GIS products as aids
   to, and as outputs of, missions; and the development of baseline
   information to support the management and development of new marine
   protected areas.
