http://infrared.als.lbl.gov/IRNews/IRNews6.pdf

   ALS IR News No.6 October 26, 2000 Future Directions for Far-Infrared
   Sources Workshop Summary Michael C. Martin, Wayne R. McKinney On
   October 18, 2000 we convened a workshop mixing setup. George brings a
   very interesting to investigate the science that could drive a
   biological research application and is new synchrotron-based
   far-infrared program at enthusiastic in his support for a new far-IR
   the ALS. Topics emphasized the far-IR ring at the ALS. research that
   could be enhanced by a new The second invited speaker was Prof. Al
   high-brightness far-IR facility. Since the Sievers of Cornell. Al has a
   deep knowledge evolution of such a program involves source of infrared
   measurements including recent development, workshop topics also
   included investigations of coherent far-IR radiation measurements of
   and proposals for producing from the Cornell LINAC. His talk discussed
   coherent high-brightness far-IR from a storage how high intensity
   excitations of atoms could ring. create intrinsic localized vibrational
   modes in Nearly forty people attended the workshop. periodic lattices.
   He presented modeling his Please refer to the attendee's list and the
   group has done, and a demonstration program schedule appended to the
   end of this experiment they were able to perform using a document.
   high-field RF cavity to induce localized modes in a magnetic system. To
   study these * Morning Session: interesting localized modes in crystals,
   one Mike began the program by briefly giving the would need a very high
   intensity far-IR source reason for the workshop, describing activities
   that could drive the sample into a non-linear at the ALS since the
   previous year's workshop, response regime. Non-linear phenomena such
   and presenting the recently funded LDRD as these localized modes would
   be an research we plan to perform investigating important scientific
   arena for a new coherent coherent radiation at the ALS. far-IR
   facility. Dimitri Basov from UC San Diego then took After a coffee
   break, Wayne McKinney over as chair and introduced Prof. George chaired
   the late morning session and Gruner from UC Los Angeles. George spoke
   introduced Prof. Richard Saykally of UC about his group's recent
   measurements of the Berkeley's Chemistry Department. Rich far-IR
   conductivity of electrons on strands of presented results from his
   laboratory where DNA. He showed that the DNA's conductivity they are
   measuring the Vibrational Rotational changes significantly with the
   hydration state Tunneling (VTR) of small water clusters at of the DNA
   molecule. He stated that if enough extremely high resolution. They have
   built a intensity was available from a new far-IR number of tunable
   far-IR laser sources to facility, high spatial resolution far-IR
   measure the VTR spectral features of several measurements (~1 micron
   resolution) would water bands. However this research is very be
   possible which could measure the different labor-intensive and cannot
   cover the entire folding states of DNA molecules in a sudden spectral
   range of interest (20 to 600 cm-1). His ALS IR News Page 2 No.6
   research thrust is to fully understand the ALS accelerator physics
   group gave a brief hydrogen bonding interactions between tour of the
   area on top of the ALS booster ring individual water molecules in small
   clusters so where a new coherent IR beamline might be that ultimately a
   much better understanding of constructed. We discussed how the
   shielding the properties of water will result. Rich is roof and walls
   were poured in place and are excited about the possibility of using a
   high- therefore much more stable against vibrations. brightness far-IR
   source with an ultra-high The attendees were also able to see how much
   resolution step-scan FTIR spectrometer to room would be available for
   individual better perform these important measurements. beamline
   endstations. Prof. Paul Richards of UC Berkeley then gave We all
   returned to the workshop room and a brief impromptu talk about
   developments in Mike took over as chair for the next three far-IR
   detector technology. He has been talks. Larry Carr of the NSLS
   presented a talk working in this field continuously for forty on the
   current status of the U12IR beamline years and he showed throughout
   this time the and some of the Far-IR science they have been speed at
   which far-IR measurements can be doing. He reported on the very low
   frequency done has doubled every 12 months performance of a new FTIR
   spectrometer continuously for 40 years! He also pointed out recently
   installed on U12IR, and of that a number of space-borne far-IR
   telescopes interference fringing that was observed. After are planned
   by NASA at a cost of $10 to $100 some work, they found that the source
   of the million each, and every one of them will need fringing is a
   reflection off of the vacuum high-precision testing which could be an
   chamber from earlier in the bend. Larry then excellent role for a new
   far-IR facility at the presented a sampling of the science: testing
   ALS. mm wave windows for a new telescope array, John Byrd of the ALS
   Accelerator Physics studies of LaMnO3, and finally pump-probe group
   then finished up the morning session measurements of photoexitation and
   relaxation with some of the initial design ideas his group in
   superconductors. Larry also presented some has for a coherent far-IR
   ring. The present measurements they have done of coherent far- ideas
   include a six-fold symmetric ring which IR bursts resulting from
   microbunching of the would have 12 bend-magnet ports specifically
   electrons in their ring. These measurements designed for extracting
   long-wavelength showed the characteristic n2 intensity profiles
   radiation. It would use the existing ALS of coherent radiation, but
   this radiation comes LINAC and booster ring as an injection system in
   quasi-random bursts making it not very and could operate in two modes.
   One would useful as a far-IR source. be a 'normal' high current
   incoherent The next speaker was Prof. Daniel Mittleman synchrotron mode
   that would allow the of Rice University. He presented some of his
   infrared endstations to begin doing excellent research that uses single
   cycle terahertz pulses science. The second mode would have very to
   perform spectroscopy and imaging in the short electron bunches so that
   it would far-IR (typically 3 to 100 cm-1). The THz produce coherent
   far-IR radiation for both pulses are created by a femtosecond laser
   more intensity and also femtosecond timing pulse incident on a special
   antenna that then measurements. Mode 1 could be built first radiates a
   single cycle pulse. This technique with Mode 2 capabilities added
   second. These has the advantage of directly measuring the IR ring ideas
   generated much positive electric field amplitude, however it does not
   discussion from the group. provide a high-power source; typical power *
   Afternoon Session: values are 10-100 nW per pulse. Dan showed some
   fascinating data where a large absorption Following lunch, Mike and
   members of the is observed from nanometer sized water pools trapped
   inside of micelles and that the ALS IR News Page 3 No.6 absorption
   frequency shifts dramatically they are performed at fairly large angles
   from depending on the size of the cell. He also the sample normal, with
   a high degree of showed several examples of how one can polarization
   and no focussing for the incident obtain high resolution depth profiles
   of what is beam. He showed a number of interesting inside an object by
   measuring the time delay results from high-temperature superconductors
   of the reflected THz pulses. and other strongly correlated electron
   systems. Chris Homes of BNL's Physics Department He is also very
   interested in a higher flux far- then presented some of his work on
   strongly IR source to enable yet more ellipsometry correlated electron
   systems in the very long measurements on smaller samples. wavelength
   region using the U10A far-IR * Discussion: beamline at the NSLS. This
   beamline is similar to the ALS 1.4.2 beamline with the At the end of
   the presentations, Mike thanked same instrumentation. Chris showed
   various everyone for participating and opened the measures of the
   beamline performance and workshop to a round-table type discussion. how
   it is better than a thermal IR source. He The entire group stayed until
   after 5pm going then spent the bulk of his talk discussing over several
   issues of the day. We were very recent results on the (Sr,Ca) pleased
   that the overall tone of all those in 14Cu24O41 two-leg spin ladder
   system. A possible c-axis attendance was quite enthusiastic for the
   collective mode was suggested by his far-IR construction of a new
   far-IR facility at the data, but he needed to measure further in the
   ALS. The potential science that could be IR to determine it better. By
   switching to a enhanced by such a facility was deemed very different
   instrument that can use a Si worthwhile and the value of having a West
   beamsplitter, he was able to push his low- Coast Far-IR synchrotron
   facility was frequency data down to 8 cm-1 and could highlighted.
   Building a stable coherent far-IR resolve this new mode. Chris is
   enthusiastic ring would result in a large enhancement over about a new
   far-IR ring, which could help current far-IR capabilities worldwide.
   make these very far-IR measurements much * Conclusions: easier and
   would therefore help the infrared community as a whole. The overall
   conclusions and recommendations of the workshop are: After a break, the
   workshop continued with its final session chaired by Zack Schlesinger
   of * A dedicated Far-IR facility should be built UC Santa Cruz. Paul
   Dumas from the LURE at the ALS. synchrotron near Paris discussed far-IR
   studies * The most enthusiastic supporters of this of gases adsorbed
   onto solid surfaces. This new facility are Dimitri Basov, Zack research
   is performed at grazing incidence and Schlesinger, George Gruner,
   Richard therefore requires a high-brightness source. Saykally, Joe
   Orenstein, and Chris Homes. The subtle nature of the far-IR modes also
   They all are eager to help in proposal requires a very stable,
   low-noise source. He writing for such a facility and to help guide
   showed several examples of new science that in the selection of
   scientific apparatus for could be done if a new far-IR source was
   built. end-stations. Christian Bernhardt from the Max Plank * The ALS
   accelerator physics group should Institute in Stuttgart gave the final
   presentation continue firming up design plans and begin of the day. He
   discussed his research with a cost estimates. Once the technical
   details far-IR ellipsometry apparatus he built at the are pinned down,
   a full proposal should be U4IR beamline at the NSLS. These written to
   fund and build the new Far-IR measurements are very powerful and
   reliable, facility. however they need high brightness sources as ALS IR
   News Page 4 No.6 List of Attendees: Joe Orenstein University of CA,
   Berkeley George Gruner University of CA, Los Angeles Zack Schlesinger
   University of CA, Santa Cruz Paul Richards University of CA, Berkeley
   Richard Saykally University of CA, Berkeley Dimitri Basov University of
   CA, San Diego Roland Hirsch DOE Al Seivers Cornell University Daniel
   Mittleman Rice University Larry Carr NSLS, Brookhaven National Lab Paul
   Dumas LURE Christian Bernhardt Max Plank Institute, Stuttgart Todd
   Smith Stanford University Hansen Laboratory Gerald J. LaPeyre Montana
   State University Bozeman Tim May Canadian Light Source Chris Weber
   University of CA, Berkeley Ted Raab University of Colorado at Boulder
   Ronald Cornwell Canada Lora Nugent-Glasdorf JILA Neville Smith LBNL
   John Byrd LBNL Dave Robin LBNL Hoi-Ying Holman LBNL Robert Kaindl LBNL
   Ying Wu LBNL Christoph Steir LBNL Allen Johnson University of Nevada,
   Las Vegas Wim Leimans LBNL T.J. Wilkinson LBNL Warren Byrne LBNL Bruce
   Samuelson LBNL Susan Spiller + 5 more students Organizers: Michael C.
   Martin LBNL ALS Dimitri Basov UC San Diego Zack Schlesinger UC Santa
   Cruz Gwyn Williams Jefferson Lab Wayne R. McKinney LBNL ALS ALS IR News
   Page 5 No.6 Far-Infrared Workshop Program 2000 ALS Users' Meeting
   Wednesday October 18, 2000 Room 4-102B 8:30 Continental Breakfast 9:00
   Michael Martin Welcome ALS Chair: D. Basov, UCSD 9:20 George Grüner
   "Motion of electrons on the DNA double helix" UCLA 9:55 Al Sievers
   "Generating Intrinsic Localized Vibrational and Spin Wave Modes in
   Cornell Nonlinear Periodic Lattices" 10:30 Coffee Break Chair: W.
   McKinney, ALS 10:50 Richard Saykally "Far-IR VRT Spectroscopy of
   Clusters" UC Berkeley 11:25 Paul Richards "Far-IR detector
   developments" UC Berkeley 11:35 John Byrd "Ideas for a dedicated IR
   source at the ALS" ALS 12:10 Lunch (ALS Patio) 12:50 Brief tour of
   proposed location for a new far-IR ring Chair: M. Martin, ALS 1:20
   Larry Carr "Far Infrared Science at the NSLS" NSLS, BNL 1:55 Daniel
   Mittleman "Spectroscopy and Imaging with Single-Cycle Terahertz Pulses"
   Rice 2:30 Chris Homes "Infrared studies of correlated systems at very
   long wavelengths at the BNL NSLS" 3:05 Coffee Break Chair: Z.
   Schlesinger, UCSC 3:25 Paul Dumas "Far-IR studies of solid-gas
   interfaces" LURE 4:00 Christian Bernhard "Far-Infrared Ellipsometry
   using a Synchrotron Light Source" MPI Stuttgart 4:35 Roundtable
   discussion
