http://w3.antd.nist.gov/wire_tel.shtml

   [USEMAP:wire_te.gif]


   Goals
   Horizontal
   To help the US cellular communications industry test the wideband CDMA
   components (cdma2000 and W-CDMA systems) of the IMT-2000 family of
   standards for third-generation wireless systems over different traffic
   and wireless channel quality conditions
   To facilitate transmission of video signals over 3G wireless systems.

   Technical Approach
   Horizontal
     * Develop SPW models for the forward link, reverse link, and
       multi-carrier mode of the cdma2000 system
     * Measure the performance of the cdma2000 system over different ITU
       channel models and in face of interference from other users
       communicating multimedia information
     * Develop a partitioning method and a multi-priority transmission
       method to send video over 3G wireless systems

   FY02 Plans
   Horizontal
     * Provide industry customers with as needed consulting to understand
       and use the SPW cdma2000 models distributed on our web site.
     * Wrap this project up
     * Investigate, evaluate, and (if indicated) plan a future project
       related to cellular mobile telephony.

   Related Publications
   Horizontal
     * H. Gharavi, R. Wyatt-Millington, and F. Chin,"CDMA2000 Reverse Link
       Simulation Model Design and Evaluation," Proc. 2001 International
       Conference on Third Generation Wireless and Beyond, San Francisco,
       CA, May 2001.

     * H. Gharavi, R. Wyatt-Millington, and F. Chin, Report on "Design,
       Model Implementation, and Evaluations of the cdma2000 Reverse-Link"

     * H. Gharavi and S. M. Alamouti, "Video Transmission for Third
       Generation Wireless Communication Systems," Journal of Research of
       the National Institute of Standards and Technology, Vol. 106, No.
       2, pp. 455-469,March-April 2001.

   External Relationships
   Horizontal
     * Our SPW cdma2000 models are distributed by Cadence to all its SPW
       customers
     * 3G wireless major equipment manufacturers such as Philips
       Semiconductor, Ericsson, and Nokia

   Back arrow forward arrow
   Horizontal rule
   Back to NIST Home

           Disclaimer Notice & Privacy Statement | Security Notice
           Send comments or suggestions to webmaster@antd.nist.gov
        NISTis an Agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
                               Administration


                           Date Created: May 2001
                         Created by: Stan Morehouse
                       Last updated: September 6, 2001
