http://www.inwg.cap.gov/iceberg.htm

   For Widest Disemination: Please post to INWG and KYWG Websites

   Operation: Iceberg II is coming together very well. Since there are
   problems with the Communications end of things we will run things as we
   did last year, with the Air Ops doing their things and the Ground Ops
   doing theirs, I hate to split it up that way but I really have no
   choice in the matter. There is a remote possibility for them to
   coordinate on this exercise, but not likely. The staff of the mission
   is thus far:

   Project Officer: Capt Darrel Williamson, INWG

   Incident Commander INWG- MAJ John Bryan

   Incident Commander KYWG- VACANT

   Air Operations Director- CAPT Skip Rue, KYWG

   Ground Operations Director- CAPT Brian Schmuck, INWG

   Public Affairs Officer- MAJ Jayson Alteri, KYWG

   Logistics/ Facilities Officer- 2LT Jeff Goldberg, KYWG

   Cadet Assistant- C/2LT Travis Rosenbarger, INWG

   Class Coordinator- C/Lt Col Melissa Harbeson, INWG

   Safety Officer- MAJ Michael McGill, INWG

   Medical Officer- CAPT Joseph Johnson, INWG

   Cadet Assistant-C/TSgt Daniel Goldberg, KYWG

   I HAVE TO HAVE A KYWG MC/IC so that KYWG can apply for its's own
   mission number so they can get reimburst for fuel and such. They can
   use the same Ops plan that I have already submitted all we need is a
   KYWG MC to sign off on all of the paperwork and such so they can get
   reimburst and a seperate mission number time is of the essence.


   If you are interested in filling a position please get in contact with
   me via e-mail.

   I would also like to take the time to give everyone for the Ground
   Pounders a listing of equipment that they are going to need for this
   mission, and give you enough head time to prepare for it.

   1) Basic Uniform: BDU Uniform, t-shirt, Combat Boots, cover (Suggest
   Winter Cover), gloves, field jacket, poncho or rain gear,

   2) 24 Hour gear Minimum of Flashlight with extra batteries, pistol
   belt,

   2 canteens, Compass, Whistle, matches,

   MRE (Meal Ready to Eat)

   first aid kit (Only for you not Patton's Army)

   3) Shelter- You need a good quality tent for this exercise, If possible
   it wouldn't be a bad idea if you have a three or

   four man tent and share the space as it will keep you warmer :-)

   DON"T FORGET YOUR GROUND COVER !!!!!!!

   4) Sleeping Gear- I highly suggest that you get a high quality sleeping
   bag that will keep you good and warm,

   5) Other Stuff- I would really suggest that you invest in some long
   thermal underwear tops and bottoms. Lots of extra heavy socks, Your
   gloves should have a exterior and an intearer, that way it you gloves
   get wet when you are training, your hands will not get cold. Common
   since should prevail before anything, IE: Jungle boots probably
   shouldn't be worn as they let water (melted Snow and Ice) in. Golden
   Rule for Cold weather training: It you get hot you can take it off, but
   you can't take it off if you don't have it to start with. Please Keep
   this in mind.

   We had several people that showed up last year that weren't prepared
   properly, this year to eliminate that, we are going to have a gear
   check upon arrival, meaning that before that you set up your camp site,
   you and your team members will have the minimum list that is above.
   This is for your safety that we are doing this. If you don't have the
   required gear you will not be allowed to sign in to the mission, and
   you will be sent home. Luckily we didn't have nay cases of injury last
   year but to eliminate the risks of the possibility we are implementing
   this. IF Possible we will try to set up some at base training for those
   that aren't prepared, but there will be no guarantees that this will
   happen  and I reserve the right to send them home. I would hate to see
   a whole team go home because one person wasn't prepared. So I would
   suggest that you do what we are going to do in our unit, and have a pre
   mission gear check so that you don't have to sit out.

   AIRCREWS: THERE WILL BE NO FUEL TABS RUN FOR THIS MISSION Please bring
   your own credit cards for your aircraft and pay as you go just as a
   ground team does.


   APPEARANCE:

   I am also stressing that all members be in proper uniform at all times,
   meaning, you need name tapes, wing patches and so forth before you
   come. This mission is going to have a lot of media around and we are
   going to be in the public eye most of the time. If someone comes up to
   you and asks you questions please answer them to your best ability, the
   media will be escorted by MAJ Jayson Alteri, KYWG Public Affairs
   Officer and he will be introduced during the opening briefing.

   FOOD-

   It will be each persons responsibility to bring their own food, again I
   suggest that you bring a cooler of food for your team but have the food
   separate for your members, as you might not be going out with the
   people that you arrive with, so you all might not be eating at the same
   time as your other unit buddies. You will also be responsible for
   cooking

   your own food and your own clean up.

   FACILITIES-

   The Tunnel Mill Boy Scout Reservation is a great facility for us to
   use, there are many trails and places for us to train there, and we are
   privileged to be able to use it. Please make it cleaner than you found
   it. Low impact camping techniques will be used at all times. Please
   bring your own trash bags for you to use for the mission. Maps and
   briefing packets will be provided to the GLT for each team and in turn
   to brief your people, it will be the responsibility of the GTL to get
   this done.

   EQUIPMENT-

   IF you have equipment such as L-pers, Compass, ELT's, Laptops with
   mapping software, lanterns and other items of this nature, please feel
   free to bring them as we will probably need them. PLEASE MAKE NOTE that
   none of the ICEBERG Staff are responsible for lost or damaged
   equipment, please make sure that you keep up with your gear.

   PAPERWORK:

   To participate in this mission you will need a valid CAPID, and at
   least the GEN ES certification on a 101 Yellow card that is current. If
   you don't have a GEN ES rating you will be required to attend the class
   that CAPT Williamson will be teaching or you will have to go home. CAPT
   Williamson is qualified to teach the class as he is certified as a ES
   Curriculum Instructor. The class will be announced upon opening
   briefing on SAT. You will also be required to turn in a CAPF 60 for
   this mission, this form is no longer required by NHQ, but to get into
   this mission you will have to have two copies, one to turn into Admin
   and one to keep on you in your upper left BDU pocket, for
   standardization in the case of an emergency.

   Communication:

   This part is still being worked out as that the NTIA in all of it's
   infinite wisdoms has limited us to only compliant radios under the new
   comm standards, so that means that unless your radio is on the new list
   of CAP frequencies you will not repeat NOT be allowed to use it. I
   highly suggest that you get a cell phone for communications that will
   be available to all GTL's. Brush up on your air to ground procedures
   with no Comm capabilities, it might come in handy. FRS Radios will not
   be used during this mission either, as they too are poisonous fruits
   for us to use.

   Mission Needs:

   I need a general head count from all participants ASAP so that we can
   plan on training classes and such.

   It would also be really neat if you could give me a listing of how many
   need the GEN ES class also.

   I also need a listing of medically qualified personnel that will be
   participating.

   I need a IC from KYWG to participate for this mission. Please contact
   me ASAP.

   AIRCREWS~Slow Scan video is in question right now, if you have one
   please bring a Polaroid Camera with Film so we can do photo recon.

   That is the update for this time there will be a new on after the 10th
   of JAN when the next planning meeting is.

   Please don't wait to the last minute on this as that time is slipping
   by


   For additional information:

   Darrel D. Williamson, CAPT, CAP

   Project Officer Operation : ICEBERG II

   GLR-IN-126 Falcon Composite Squadron

   Indiana Wing AIG Southern Region / DDR Administrator

   Ph: 812-366-4408

   4420 E Whiskey Run Road

   Georgetown, Indiana 47122

   scout126@juno.com
