http://travel.state.gov/links.html

          Links to United States Embassies and Consulates Worldwide

   Visit the Consular Sections at these U.S. Embassy and Consulate home
   pages:

   U.S. Embassy in Luanda, Angola and their services for Americans and
   visa services

   U.S. Embassy in Buenos Aires, Argentina and the Consular Section in
   Buenos Aires

   U.S. Embassy in Yerevan, Armenia and the Consular Section in Yerevan

   U.S. Embassy in Canberra, Australia and the Consular Section in
   Canberra

   U.S. Consulate General in Sydney, Australia and the Consular Section in
   Sydney

   U.S. Consulate General in Melbourne, Australia

   U.S. Consulate General in Perth, Australia

   U.S. Embassy in Vienna, Austria and the Consular Section in Vienna

   U.S. Embassy in Baku, Azerbaijan

   U.S. Embassy in Manama, Bahrain and the Consular Section in Manama

   U.S. Embassy in Dhaka, Bangladesh and the Consular Section in Dhaka

   U.S. Embassy in Minsk, Belarus and the Consular Section in Minsk

   U.S. Embassy in Bridgetown, Barbados and the Consular Section in
   Bridgetown

   U.S. Embassy in Brussels, Belgium and their services for Americans and
   visa services

   U.S. Embassy in La Paz, Bolivia and their services for Americans and
   visa services

   U.S. Embassy in Gaborone, Botswana and the Consular Section

   U.S. Embassy in Brasilia, Brazil

   U.S. Consulate General in Sao Paulo, Brazil

   U.S. Consulate in Recife, Brazil

   U.S. Consulate in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil

   U.S. Embassy in Sofia, Bulgaria and the Consular Section in Sofia

   U.S. Embassy in Burkina Faso and the Consular Section

   U.S. Embassy in Phnom Penh, Cambodia and the Consular Section in Phnom
   Penh

   U.S. Embassy in Ottawa, Canada

   U.S. Embassy in N'Djamena, Chad

   U.S. Embassy in Santiago, Chile

   U.S. Embassy in Beijing, China and their services for Americans and
   visa services

   U.S. Consulate General in Chengdu, China

   U.S. Consulate General in Guangzhou, China

   U.S. Consulate General in Shanghai, China

   U.S. Consulate General in Shenyang, China

   U.S. Embassy in Bogota, Colombia

   U.S. Embassy in San Jose, Costa Rica and the Consular Section in San
   Jose

   U.S. Embassy in Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire and the Consular Section in
   Abidjan

   U.S. Embassy in Zagreb, Croatia and the Consular Section in Zagreb

   U.S. Interests Section in Havana, Cuba

   U.S. Consulate General in Curacao, Netherlands Antilles

   U.S. Embassy in Nicosia, Cyprus and the Consular Section in Nicosia

   U.S. Embassy in Prague, Czech Republic and the Consular Section in
   Prague

   U.S. Embassy in Copenhagen, Denmark and the Consular Section in
   Copenhagen

   U.S. Embassy in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic and the Consular
   Section in Santo Domingo

   U.S. Embassy in Quito, Ecuador

   U.S. Embassy in Cairo, Egypt and the Consular Section in Cairo

   U.S. Embassy in San Salvador, El Salvador and the Consular Section in
   San Salvador

   U.S. Embassy in Tallinn, Estonia and the Consular Section in Tallinn

   U.S. Embassy in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia and the Consular Section in Addis
   Ababa

   U.S. Embassy in Suva, Fiji and the Consular Section in Suva

   U.S. Embassy in Helsinki, Finland and the Consular Section in Helsinki

   U.S. Embassy in Paris, France and the Consular Section in Paris

   U.S. Embassy in Tblisi, Georgia and the Consular Section in Tblisi

   U.S. Mission in Germany and the Consular Sections in Germany

   U.S. Embassy in Accra, Ghana and the Consular Section in Accra

   U.S. Embassy in Athens, Greece and the Consular Section in Athens

   U.S. Consulate General in Thessaloniki, Greece and the Consular Section
   in Thessaloniki

   U.S. Embassy in Guatemala

   U.S. Embassy in Conakry, Guinea and the Consular Section on Conakry

   U.S. Embassy in Georgetown, Guyana and the Consular Section in
   Georgetown

   U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince, Haiti and the Consular Section in
   Port-au-Prince

   U.S. Embassy to the Holy See (Vatican City)

   U.S. Consulate General in Hong Kong and their services to Americans and
   visa services

   U.S. Embassy in Tegucigalpa, Honduras and the Consular Section in
   Tegucigalpa

   U.S. Embassy in Budapest, Hungary and the Consular Section in Budapest

   U.S. Embassy in Reykjavik, Iceland

   U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, India and their services for Americans and
   visa services

   U.S. Consulate General in Calcutta, India and the Consular Section in
   Calcutta

   U.S. Consulate General in Chennai (Madras), India

   U.S. Consulate General in Mumbai, India

   U.S. Embassy in Jakarta, Indonesia and their services for Americans and
   visa services

   U.S. Embassy in Dublin, Ireland

   U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv, Israel and the Consular Section in Tel Aviv

   U.S. Embassy in Rome, Italy and the Consular Section in Rome

   U.S. Embassy in Kingston, Jamaica and the Consular Section in Kingston

   U.S. Embassy in Tokyo, Japan and their services for Americans and visa
   services

   U.S. Consulate in Fukuoka, Japan and the Consular Section in Fukuoka

   U.S. Consulate General's Consular Section in Osaka-Kobe, Japan

   U.S. Consulate General in Jerusalem and the Consular Section in
   Jerusalem

   U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan and the Consular Section in Amman

   U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, Kenya and the Consular Section in Nairobi

   U.S. Embassy in Seoul, Korea and the Consular Section in Seoul

   U.S. Embassy in Kuwait and their services for Americans and visa
   services

   U.S. Embassy in Vientiane, Laos and the Consular Section in Vientiane

   U.S. Embassy in Riga, Latvia and the Consular Section in Riga

   U.S. Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon and the Consular Section in Beirut

   U.S. Embassy in Vilnius, Lithuania and the Consular Section in Vilnius

   U.S. Embassy in Skopje, Macedonia

   U.S. Embassy in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and the Consular Section in
   Kuala Lumpur

   U.S. Embassy in Valletta, Malta and the Consular Section in Valletta

   U.S. Embassy in Majuro, the Marshall Islands

   U.S. Embassy in Port Louis, Mauritius and the Consular Section in Port
   Louis

   U.S. Embassy in Mexico City, Mexico and their services for Americans
   and visa services

   U.S. Consulate General in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico and their services for
   Americans and immigrant and nonimmigrant visa services

   U.S. Consulate General in Guadalajara, Mexico

   U.S. Consulate in Hermosillo

   U.S. Consulate General in Tijuana, Mexico and their American Citizens
   Services and Visa Services

   U.S. Embassy in Chisinau, Moldova and the Consular Section in Chisinau

   U.S. Embassy in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia and the Consular Section in
   Ulaanbaatar

   U.S. Embassy in Rabat, Morocco and the Consular Section in Rabat

   U.S. Embassy in Windhoek, Namibia and the Consular Section in Windhoek

   U.S. Embassy in Kathmandu, Nepal and their services for Americans and
   visa services

   U.S. Embassy in The Hague, Netherlands

   U.S. Consulate General in Amsterdam, Netherlands and the Consular
   Section in Amsterdam

   U.S. Embassy in Wellington, New Zealand

   U.S. Consulate General in Auckland, New Zealand

   U.S. Embassy in Managua, Nicaragua

   U.S. Embassy in Oslo, Norway and the Consular Section in Oslo

   U.S. Embassy in Muscat, Oman and the Consular Section in Muscat

   U.S. Embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan and the Consular Section in
   Islamabad

   U.S. Consulate in Karachi, Pakistan

   U.S. Consulate in Lahore, Pakistan and their services for Americans and
   visa services

   U.S. Consulate in Peshawar, Pakistan and the Consular Section in
   Peshawar

   U.S. Embassy in Panama City, Panama and their services for Americans

   U.S. Embassy in Lima, Peru and the Consular Section in Lima

   U.S. Embassy in Manila, the Philippines and the Consular Section in
   Manila

   U.S. Consulate General in Krakow, Poland and the Consular Section in
   Krakow

   U.S. Embassy in Warsaw, Poland

   U.S. Embassy in Lisbon, Portugal and the Consular Section in Lisbon

   U.S. Embassy in Doha, Qatar

   U.S. Embassy in Bucharest, Romania and the Consular Section in
   Bucharest

   U.S. Embassy in Moscow, Russia and the Consular Section in Moscow

   The Consular Section of the U.S. Consulate General in Vladivostok,
   Russia

   U.S. Consulate General in Yekatarinburg, Russia and the Consular
   Section in Yekatarinburg

   U.S. Embassy in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia and the Consular Section in Riyadh

   U.S. Consulate General in Edinburgh, Scotland

   U.S. Embassy in Dakar, Senegal and the Consular Section in Dakar

   U.S. Embassy in Singapore and the Consular Section in Singapore

   U.S. Embassy in Bratislava, Slovakia and the Consular Section in
   Bratislava

   U.S. Embassy in Ljubljana, Slovenia and the Consular Section in
   Ljubljana

   U.S. Embassy in Pretoria, South Africa and the Consular Section in
   Pretoria

   U.S. Embassy in Madrid, Spain and the Consular Section in Madrid

   U.S. Embassy in Colombo, Sri Lanka and the Consular Section in Colombo

   U.S. Embassy in Khartoum, Sudan and the Consular Services available
   from Khartoum

   U.S. Embassy in Paramaribo, Suriname and the Consular Section in
   Paramaribo

   U.S. Embassy in Stockholm, Sweden and the Consular Section in Stockholm

   U.S. Embassy in Mbabane, Swaziland and the Consular Section in Mbabane

   U.S. Embassy in Bern, Switzerland

   American Institute in Taiwan (AIT)

   U.S. Embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania and the Consular Section in Dar
   es Salaam

   U.S. Embassy in Bangkok, Thailand and the Consular Section in Bangkok

   U.S. Consulate General in Chiang Mai, Thailand

   U.S. Embassy in Lome, Togo and the Consular Section

   U.S. Embassy in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad and Tobago and the

   U.S. Embassy in Tunis, Tunisia and the Consular Section in Tunis

   U.S. Embassy in Ankara, Turkey

   U.S. Consulate in Adana, Turkey

   U.S. Consulate General in Istanbul, Turkey and the Consular Section in
   Istanbul

   U.S. Embassy in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan and the Consular Section in
   Ashgabat

   U.S. Embassy in Kiev, Ukraine

   U.S. Embassy in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates and the Consular
   Section in Abu Dhabi

   U.S. Embassy in London, United Kingdom and their services for Americans
   and visa services

   U.S. Embassy in Montevideo, Uruguay

   U.S. Embassy in Caracas, Venezuela and the Consular Section in Caracas

   U.S. Embassy in Hanoi, Vietnam and the Consular Section in Hanoi

   U.S. Consulate General in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam

   U.S. Embassy in Sanaa, Yemen and the Consular Section in Sanaa

   U.S. Embassy in Lusaka, Zambia and the Consular Section in Lusaka

   Return to the Consular Affairs Home Page
