http://www.bt.cdc.gov/Planning/index.asp

   Skip Navigation Links

   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

   CDC Home Search Health Topics A-Z
   Public Health/Bioterrorism Preparedness & Response
   Site-wide Links


                Department of Health and Human Services - USA
   Agents & Threats
   Biological (listing)
   Chemical (listing)
   Radiological Emergencies
   Site Topics
   Preparation & Planning
   Emergency Response
   Lab Information
   Surveillance
   Media & Press Center
   Training
   Resources/Links
   En Español
   Página Principal del Terrorismo Biológico
   Public Inquiries
   English (888) 246-2675
   Español (888) 246-2857
   Mon-Fri 8am-11pm EST
   Sat-Sun 10am-8pm EST
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
   1600 Clifton Rd.
   Atlanta, GA 30333
   U.S.A
   (404) 639-3311
   FirstGov
   Preparation & Planning
   National-level Strategies and Plans

   • Bioterrorism: The CDC's Program in Brief
     Brief description of bioterrorism and CDC role.
   •

     Bioterrorism Preparedness FAQ
   •

     Biological and Chemical Terrorism: Strategic Plan for Preparedness and
     Response
     Recommendations of the CDC Strategic Planning Workgroup.
     MMWR Recommendations and Reports. April 21, 2000;49(RR-4);1-14.
   •

     Strengthening National Preparedness for Smallpox: an Update.
     Emerging Infectious Diseases. Jan-Feb 2001;7(1).
   • National Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Initiative
     Slide set. Provides an overview and general information about the
     bioterrorism preparedness and response activities.
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (3.78 MB)
   •

     National Pharmaceutical Stockpile Program (NPS)
     Program synposis. From National Center for Environmental Health.
   • Emergency and Environmental Health Services
     From the National Center for Environmental Health. Description of NCEH
     involvement in providing national and international leadership for the
     coordination, delivery, and evaluation of emergency and environmental
     health services.
   • Centers for Public Health Preparedness
     Program focusing on information technology and training in support of
     bioterrorism preparedness and emergency response.
   State and Local-level Information and Plans

   • Notification Procedures for State and Local Public Health Officials
   • The Public Health Response to Biological and Chemical Terrorism:
     Interim Planning Guidance for State Public Health Officials
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (1.12 MB)
   • State-level Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Project Profiles
   • CDC Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Initiative Monthly Updates
   Healthcare Facilities

   • Bioterrorism Readiness Plan: A Template for Healthcare Facilities
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (1.5 MB)
   • Hospital Preparedness for Mass Causalities
     Povided by the Advancing Health in America Policy Forum.
   Legal and Planning Issues

   • Regulations to control communicable diseases
     42 U.S.C. 264 (From United States Code Annotated; Title 42; The Public
     Health And Welfare; Chapter 6a--Public Health Service; Subchapter
     Ii--General Powers And Duties.; Part G--Quarantine And Inspection).
     Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Acrobat Reader (9 KB)
   • Interstate Quarantine
     From United States Code Annotated; Title 42; The Public Health And
     Welfare; Part 70. On U.S. Goverment Printing Office site.
   • Foreign Quarantine
     From United States Code Annotated; Title 42; The Public Health And
     Welfare; Part 71. On U.S. Goverment Printing Office site.
   Contacts for Preparation and Planning

   • Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Program
     Program questions: 404-639-0385
   • Emergency Preparedness and Response Branch
     Provided by the National Center for Environmental Health.
   • Health Agency Locator (HAL)
   Related Resources

   • Regional Emergency Coordinators, Office of Emergency Preparedness,
     U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
     For planning purposes, contact information for Regional Emergency
     Coordinators, who provide information on Federal medical preparedness
     and response planning.
   • Office of Domestic Preparedness
     On U.S. Department of Justice site
   • Disaster Psychiatry
     On American Psychiatric Association site
   • Basic Incident Command System Course
     Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)

   Top of Page

   PHEPR Home | Lab & Health Professionals | About | FAQ | Contact Us

   CDC Home | Search | Health Topics A-Z

   In general all information presented in these pages and all items
   available for download are for public use. However, you may encounter
   some pages that require a login password and id. If this is the case
   you may assume that information presented and items available for
   download therein are for your authorized access only and not for
   redistribution by you unless you are otherwise informed.
   Content-related questions should be directed to: Content Administrator
   Site-related questions should be directed to: Webmaster
   This page last reviewed:
   Privacy Policy | Accessibility
   ** Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0 may be required for large documents**
