http://www.history.noaa.gov/welcome.html

      NOAA History Banner
      spacer

      Welcome Banner

        NOAA History is an intrinsic part of the history of the United
     [flag3.jpg] States and the development of its science and commercial
     infrastructure. The ancestor agencies of the National Oceanic and
     Atmospheric Administration include the United States Coast Survey
     established in 1807, the United States Weather Bureau established in
     1870, and the United States Commission of Fish and Fisheries
     established in 1871.

     These organizations were the first physical science agency in the
     United States, the first agency formed specifically for observation
     and study of the atmosphere, and the first agency formed to study
     and conserve natural resources. Under these agencies and their
     descendants the United States has become recognized as a world
     leader in the sciences of geodesy, geophysics, metrology,
     oceanography, meteorology, climatology, marine biology, and marine
     ecology. Additionally, the impetus given to various types of
     engineering and the advancement of the mathematical sciences by
     these organizations was and still is a major contribution to the
     welfare and well-being of our Nation.

     Besides the science that has grown up in these organizations, they
     have also been great humanitarian agencies concerned with the saving
     of life both on our shores and within the interior of the United
     States. Millions of passengers and trillions of tons of cargo have
     safely come to our shores while guided by the charts of the Coast
     Survey and its descendant organizations. The American citizens whose
     lives have been saved by the warnings of the Weather Bureau and its
     descendants and the dollars saved by our national economy as a
     result of better forecasting are beyond measure. And the fight to
     save our fisheries for future generations has been led by the Fish
     and Fisheries Commission and its descendants.

     The personnel of these organizations served in peace and war; worked
     in the remote and frontier regions of our Nation; and experienced
     rough seas, violent weather, various and sundry hardships in
     accomplishing their mission, and separation from family and friends.
     But through all of this they persevered with quiet courage and a
     fierce loyalty to their organization and the Nation. Within the NOAA
     History Site you will find the stories of many of these dedicated
     public servants, the stories of their agencies, and the stories of
     the development of a major segment of American science.


      spacer

   line
   Return to Home Page
   line

     spacer

     line


     Publication of the NOAA Central Library and the Office of High
     Performance Computing and Communications.
     Last Updated: 03/12/01

     spacer
