http://www.nipc.gov/pressroom/pressrel/090501.pdf

   RONALD L. DICK "THE LEGAL ASPECTS OF INFRASTRUCTURE PROTECTION"
   September 5, 2001 INFOWARCON 2001, WASHINGTON, D C Thank you very much
   for the kind introduction. I'm happy to be with you today to discuss
   the legal aspects of infrastructure protection. I'm pleased, although
   not at all surprised, to see this level of interest, both in terms of
   those who have taken the time to attend, and in terms of those who are
   speaking on the wide range of topics you have ahead of you. In this
   regard, there are a number of other representatives from the NIPC who
   are sitting on panels today and tomorrow and I hope that if you have an
   opportunity to see them you will find their sessions informative. I
   suspect that the speakers and the attendees alike are here based on a
   common understanding that, at some level, our security is at risk. For
   some of us, the focus is on an individual company's information
   systems. For others it is on one or more segments of the national
   security, a concept that includes our nation's overall economic
   well-being. There is no doubt that as individuals, as businesses, and
   as a nation as a whole, we are increasingly at risk if we choose to do
   nothing in the face of our growing infrastructure vulnerabilities.
   These risks are real. We don't need to wait for a catastrophe to
   occur-indeed we must not allow a catastrophe to occur-in order to
   recognize that much work needs to be done. The recent Code Red Worm
   demonstrates quite clearly that an individual out to harm our
   infrastructure can infect hundreds of thousands of computers within a
   matter of hours, and that he can find ready targets even when the
   vulnerabilities are long known, well-known, further publicized, and
   easily fixed. We now must work towards solving the problems. An
   increasingly large number of our systems are vulnerable and
   interdependent. The capabilities to exploit many of these weaknesses
   are commonly understood and inexpensive. And, there is no shortage of
   people intent on taking advantage of these flaws. Sometimes they are
   motivated by political ideology. Sometimes by profit. Sometimes by a
   desire merely to show off. And sometimes they are motivated by pure
   hatred. Whatever their motives, their actions are oftentimes impossible
   to distinguish from one another and, from a government perspective,
   catching criminals, terrorists, and intelligence operatives has never
   been more difficult than it has become in today's cyber environment. In
   today's environment, attacks and intrusions are often encrypted, broken
   into packets, and routed throughout the world, where they anonymously
   pass through Internet and telecommunications providers that have no
   obligation to keep track of how their systems are used or, more
   importantly, how they are misused. If there is a single overarching
   legal aspect to the current infrastructure debate, one issue that bears
   most heavily on how the landscape will look five years from today, it
   is how we as a democratic society ultimately resolve the oftentimes
   competing interests of privacy, business, and public safety. Of these,
   the most difficult decision involves properly balancing our right to
   privacy or, in my view, simply reestablishing the traditional balance
   between privacy rights on one hand and the demands of public safety and
   national security on the other. Americans have always recognized
   privacy as among the most fundamental of all human rights, especially
   as between people and the government. The Constitution demands that,
   unless there is some legitimate and compelling need, the government
   must not interfere with our individually held rights to speak and to
   associate freely. And, unless there is a similarly overriding and
   appropriate interest, the government must not search our persons or our
   property. These principles within the First and Fourth Amendments are
   firmly etched into our collective memory during grade school and remain
   part of our strongly held views of democracy forevermore as adults. The
   NIPC, on behalf of each of its partner agencies, is firmly committed to
   the fundamental proposition that the investigation of cyber crimes and
   national security events must be achieved in a manner that protects the
   privacy rights of our citizens, which is an essential Constitutional
   right. We know that we can only be successful if we remain true to
   these core values. However, there is reason for concern that cyber
   intruders are gaining the ability to remain anonymous, regardless of
   their impact on human life and national security, and regardless of
   whether the government can make a showing that it should be able to get
   the information necessary to catch them. Quite simply, the balance
   described in the Constitution, which provides the government with the
   capacity to protect the public, is eroding. In its place, the privacy
   of criminals and foreign enemies is edging towards the absolute. If we
   continue down this path, no identifying information will be available
   when the government shows up, as specifically contemplated in the
   Fourth Amendment, with a warrant issued "upon probable cause, supported
   by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
   searched, and the persons or things to be seized." 2 As a result of
   this shifting in the balance between privacy, public safety, and
   national security, the list of victims is growing and the world wide
   web is being referred to as the Wild Wild West. As time goes on, I find
   that more and more of the individuals I meet have firsthand knowledge
   of computer crime. Their own computers-not just computers of people
   they know-have been infected with a virus or worm, their company
   website has been defaced or its presence crippled by a denial of
   service attack, or their information systems have been infiltrated and
   their company's proprietary data has fallen into the hands of an
   unidentified intruder. Indeed, as time passes, amongst those that
   actively use computers, I meet fewer and fewer organizations that have
   proven immune to these growing threats. And, I suspect that the people
   in this room, and the groups you represent, are no different. If you
   don't think that you or your company has ever been affected by some
   form of cybercrime, either you just aren't aware of it, or you are a
   lucky member of a rapidly narrowing class. An annual computer crime
   survey conducted jointly between the Computer Security Institute and
   the FBI bears this out. In 1996, when we asked systems administrators
   if anybody had gained unauthorized access to their computers, less than
   half, 42 percent, answered yes. Last year, when asked the same
   question, well over half of the respondents, a full 70 percent,
   answered yes. And there lies the irony to the privacy debate. Law
   abiding citizens are finding that their privacy is increasingly being
   intruded upon by criminals. Meanwhile, the criminals are gaining
   privacy. I've been the Director of the NIPC for a little over eight
   months now, having held a number of different management positions at
   the Center since arriving there in 1998. I have watched it grow and
   develop almost from its inception. Bear in mind that, just three years
   ago, infrastructure protection was relatively new ground for the
   Federal government. President Clinton issued Presidential Decision
   Directive 63 in May of 1998. It was a wake up call which established a
   new framework for doing business. For the first time, the Federal
   government created an interagency entity, the National Infrastructure
   Protection Center-combining the United States law enforcement,
   military, and intelligence communities-to work directly with the
   private sector to achieve what many to this day say is impossible: The
   elimination of all vulnerabilities to our nation's critical
   infrastructures. Eliminating all of these vulnerabilities, stated the
   President, would necessarily require "flexible, evolutionary
   approaches" spanning both the public and private sectors, and
   protecting both domestic and international security. 3 As flexible as
   we want to be, bringing together the U.S. law enforcement, military,
   and intelligence communities, as well as the private sector, is not as
   easy as you might think. But the reason has nothing to do with turf
   wars. In fact, I continue to be impressed by the strong sense of common
   purpose and dedication that is reflected day in and day out by our
   multi-agency partners. Rather, blending these elements together,
   although absolutely necessary to fulfill our infrastructure protection
   mission, must as a matter of law be done carefully in order to preserve
   the privacy rights and civil rights of all Americans. I will start with
   the NIPC's integration of the military. As a matter of infrastructure
   protection, the military has huge equities. Its systems are targeted
   every day by outsiders. Not only must the military remain vigilant from
   an information security perspective, the military also must be prepared
   to respond in case a cyber attack is determined by the President and
   Congress to constitute an act of war. The military's staffing
   commitment to the NIPC, as you would imagine, is strong. Department of
   Defense personnel consistently make up the second largest contingent of
   NIPC employees, right after the FBI. Put simply, if the NIPC is not
   responsive to the military, the NIPC is not fulfilling its mission. And
   so, on a daily basis, the NIPC provides warning information to the
   military and coordinates with the Defense Department's Joint Task Force
   for Computer Network Operations. In case of a foreign threat or attack,
   the NIPC also stands ready to be placed in a direct support role to the
   Secretary of Defense. However, there are legal limitations that we
   strictly adhere to while including the military in our country's
   domestic infrastructure protection efforts. Unlike in many other areas
   of the world, in the United States the military does not actively
   participate in civilian law enforcement. Barring extreme circumstances,
   the Army, Air Force, Navy, and Marines do not take to the streets
   bearing arms, conducting searches, or making arrests. In fact, these
   activities are strictly prohibited by a law dating back to 1878, known
   as the Posse Comitatus Act. The history of the Act is interesting. By
   1878 the Civil War had been over for more than a decade, yet it took
   this Act of Congress to finally break up the substantial military
   presence that had remained throughout the South not one or two years,
   but thirteen years, later. Those familiar with federal law will find it
   interesting and telling to know that the limitation on using the
   military for civilian law enforcement purposes is not found within
   Title 10 of the U.S. Code, which generally describes the organization
   and powers of the armed forces. Rather, the prohibition is found at
   Section 1385 of Title 18, the portion of the U.S. Code which sets forth
   federal criminal law. The Posse Comitatus Act remains fundamental to
   our concept of civil rights and due process, and is faithfully
   integrated into the way the NIPC operates. The Deputy Director of the
   NIPC is a Two Star Navy Rear Admiral. He has chain-of-command authority
   for almost every aspect of the NIPC's mission, he is privy to
   everything that goes on in the Center. But, he does not supervise or
   conduct domestic investigations. That function is left to law
   enforcement officers acting under the authority and ultimate control of
   the Attorney General. 4 And, just as there are restrictions on the
   domestic and international use of our military forces, there are also
   restrictions on how the intelligence community operates within and
   outside our borders. Congress created the Central Intelligence Agency
   in 1947 to collect intelligence through human sources and by other
   appropriate means. Congress also made sure, again as an express matter
   of federal law, that the CIA had absolutely "no police, subpoena, or
   law enforcement powers or internal security functions." That
   restriction is found in Title 50 of the United States Code.
   Specifically at Section 403-3, for those of you who enjoy that kind of
   reading. In order to further protect our First and Fourth Amendment
   rights, President Reagan issued Executive Order 12,333, making it
   abundantly clear that the CIA and the NSA are severely restricted from
   collecting, retaining or disseminating information concerning United
   States persons. As such, CIA and NSA participation within the National
   Infrastructure Protection Center-which is absolutely necessary to the
   NIPC's success since many of the greatest threats come from abroad-is
   conditioned on a corresponding restriction that these personnel arrive
   as detailees who are generally prohibited from disclosing to their home
   agencies any U.S. person information they might have access to at the
   Center. These restrictions do not, however, impair the NIPC's strong
   domestic national security focus. This is because, also pursuant to
   Executive Order 12,333, when acting within the United States or against
   a United States person abroad, the Attorney General (rather than the
   Director of Central Intelligence) is authorized to approve the use for
   intelligence purposes of any technique for which a warrant would be
   required if undertaken for law enforcement purposes. It is also worth
   pointing out that, although most people think of the FBI solely in
   terms of being the nation's lead law enforcement agency, as a matter of
   Presidential Order the FBI is also the lead agency for coordinating and
   conducting foreign intelligence and counterintelligence investigations
   within the United States. Now, looking at the government's
   infrastructure protection efforts from a legal authorities perspective,
   you can better see why the NIPC is housed within the Department of
   Justice at the FBI. Being inside the FBI gives the NIPC access to law
   enforcement, intelligence, counter-intelligence, and open source
   information that-for privacy and civil rights reasons-is unavailable in
   its aggregate to any other federal agency. Given that cyber intrusions
   cross state and international boundaries nearly at the speed of light,
   the NIPC relies on the FBI's ability to gather and retain information
   from domestic and international sources, and from both a law
   enforcement and an intelligence community perspective. 5 But, it is
   equally important to recognize that infrastructure protection is an
   issue that is bigger than any one agency or any one private sector
   entity. Therefore, the NIPC has developed meaningful partnerships
   within government, between the government and private sectors, and
   internationally. As I alluded to, the NIPC management structure itself
   represents a broad cross section of the federal campaign to protect our
   infrastructures. I am from the FBI. Our deputy is a two-star Navy Rear
   Admiral. The chief of the NIPC's analysis section is a Senior
   Intelligence Officer from the CIA. We have representatives from a dozen
   agencies as well as three foreign partners in the Center: the United
   Kingdom, Canada, and Australia. Determining which agency has seniority
   for an infrastructure protection matter must depend on the nature of
   the incident or threat. The NIPC coordinates to make sure that every
   entity that needs the information to conduct its own mission gets it.
   The lead entity in charge of the U.S. government's response will depend
   on what the threat is. Most often different entities work on the
   problem simultaneously. For example, the General Services
   Administration's Federal Computer Incident Response Capability
   "FedCIRC" works on the government network security portions of an
   incident while the FBI might simultaneously conduct an investigation.
   Many times the military also is brought in to protect its systems and
   may need to be prepared in case the incident is determined to be an act
   of war. The intelligence community, whether it is the FBI acting
   domestically or the CIA and NSA acting abroad, or both, might take the
   lead role when a matter is believed to be conducted by or on behalf of
   a foreign power or terrorist group. Most often, we see simultaneous
   actions being undertaken by those who are responsible from an
   information security perspective and those who are responsible for
   determining attribution and determining an appropriate response to an
   incident. The Security Phase and the Incident Response Phase, although
   distinct, are not mutually exclusive or contradictory. I have often
   heard people say that those who are responsible for protecting systems
   want simply to shut out the intruder and get on with their business,
   while those charged with determining attribution are more interested in
   keeping the intruder active on the network so they can monitor and
   catch him. In practice, I have found that those systems administrators
   who have suffered root compromises usually have limited abilities on
   their own, or no ability at all, to shut out the intruder short of
   reinstalling their entire system from scratch . . . which they seldom
   will do. I have found in practice that blocking an intruder often tends
   only to tip him off. The intruder may be shut out from the one path the
   systems administrator was monitoring, but there is no reasonable
   assurance that the intruder hasn't by that time 6 already established a
   backdoor. Therefore, the best comfort for a system administrator is
   establishing attribution, making sure that the intrusions are stopped
   at their source, and fully understanding the extent of the compromise.
   Usually, similar to other crimes, identifying and stopping the criminal
   requires a call to law enforcement. In this regard, I am encouraged by
   the fact that the NIPC has been seeing far greater private sector
   reporting and an increase in the voluntary sharing of network security
   information. As many of you already know, the NIPC and the FBI have
   joined forces with the private sector in an initiative called
   InfraGard. Today, there are 65 InfraGard chapters throughout the
   country, with over 1800 members nationwide. It is the most extensive
   government-private sector partnership for infrastructure protection in
   the world. And, InfraGard is getting recognized for its achievements.
   Just this past May, for example, the InfraGard initiative received the
   2001 WorldSafe Internet Safety Award from the Safe America Foundation.
   And, I am proud to note that the private sector is finally seeing some
   positive results in terms of the government's ability to track down and
   arrest cyber-criminals. Many used to think that nobody would get caught
   and serve any jail time for these crimes, and that only kids were
   committing these crimes. In fact there have been a good number of
   successful prosecutions, and both juveniles and adults are being held
   accountable. As a matter of federal criminal law, the Computer Fraud
   and Abuse Act, codified at 18 U.S.C. 1030, makes it a felony for anyone
   to "knowingly cause the transmission of a program, information, code or
   command, and as a result of such conduct, intentionally cause damage
   without authorization to a protected computer." The same statute also
   makes it illegal to break into somebody's computer on the Internet and
   obtain information. First-time offenders can be sent to prison for
   anywhere up to ten years, depending on what they did. And, for people
   who launch computer viruses and worms, there is a minimum mandatory
   prison sentence of six months. In other words, when they get caught and
   convicted they are sentenced to go to jail for no less than half a
   year. A good resource if you are interested in learning more about some
   of those who have been arrested for computer crimes and the sentences
   they are serving is a website hosted by the Department of Justice at
   www.cybercrime.gov. Just go to that page and click on the part that
   refers to computer crime cases. You'll see that we are catching
   criminals ranging from disgruntled employees who live and work in the
   same towns as their victims, all the way to White Collar thieves who
   have preyed upon American businesses from Europe. And people are being
   locked up for years. Not months. Not days. Years. 7 In short, reporting
   computer crime to the government is a good idea, and increases the
   likelihood that you and others will not be further victimized, and that
   somebody will be brought to justice for violating your rights. I will
   conclude my remarks by emphasizing the fact that our nation has made
   tremendous strides in infrastructure protection over the past three
   years. United States policy is to ensure that any physical or cyber
   disruption of the critical infrastructure should be rare, brief,
   limited geographically, manageable, and minimally detrimental to our
   economy, essential services, and national security. It is the NIPC's
   mission to vigorously support this policy, and to do so firmly
   committed to our Constitutional rights. There is much work to be done.
   I am confident that each of you here today can be part of the solution.
   Through our combined vigilance and dedication, we will build a safer
   environment that will serve to protect all of our freedoms. 8
