http://www.usaid.gov/missions/

                          Skip redundant navigation
                           Image link to home page


   Item Home Item This Is USAID Item Privacy Item What's New Item Missions
                  Item Employment Item Search Item Contact
   spacer image
   The United States Agency for International Development

                         US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
                            DEVELOPMENT MISSIONS

                                          >> USAID Home >> USAID Missions

      The following is a list of USAID missions which have an internet
       presence available to the public. In the upcoming months, other
          missions will be making more regional material available.

   USAID/Armenia
          USAID/Armenia is committed to working in partnership with
          Armenians for a prosperous and stable country that offers equal
          opportunity to all its citizens. This can be achieved only
          through a strong democracy and market economy, governed by the
          rule of law, which promotes the general welfare of the people.
          Please visit our web site for more information about the
          USAID/Armenia program.

   USAID/Bangladesh
          Since Bangladesh gained independence in 1971, USAID has provided
          more than $4.3 billion in bilateral assistance to the country.
          Food aid accounts for nearly half of that amount. With USAID
          assistance, Bangladesh is realizing significant improvements in
          living conditions for its people. Now, Bangladeshis have better
          access to health care, and enjoy increased agricultural outputs,
          improved nutrition, and access to electricity. Our programs work
          with communities to assist with disaster preparedness and
          improve their ability to manage food relief when a disaster does
          strike.

   USAID/Benin
          The USAID Mission to Benin was re-established in December 1991
          with an overriding objective to help consolidate both economic
          restructuring and the democratization process in Benin. The
          mission's program focuses primarily on developing Benins human
          resource base through improving the quality of and access to
          basic education and strengthening family health services in both
          the private and public sectors. In addition, USAID/Benin has a
          cross-cutting objective which aims to improve democratic
          governance through democratic institution building, promoting
          the enabling environment for private initiatives, and
          strengthening civil societys role in decision-making.

   USAID/Bosnia and Herzogovina
          The United States Government has pledged $767 million to date
          for the reconstruction of Bosnia-Herzegovina. In supportof the
          Dayton Peace Accords, USAID assistance is helping to create a
          stable, democratic post-war Bosnia-Herzegovina with a
          functioning free market economy. Other U.S. support is being
          provided in the areas of demining, police training, national and
          municipal elections and the War Crimes Tribunal. In addition,
          the U.S. Government has delivered over $1 billion in
          humanitarian assistance to the former Yugoslavia since 1991.
          USAID/BiH activities are focused on four objectives:

         1. Restoring private sector productive capacity to restart
            production quickly and create immediate self-sustaining
            employment.
         2. Establishing a policy and institutional framework conducive to
            the emergence of a market economy, by supporting rapid
            privatization, critical macroeconomic reforms, sound fiscal
            policies, and a viable banking system.
         3. Repairing war-damaged infrastructure to facilitate refugee
            return and reactivate the local economy.
         4. Strengthening democratic institutions that promote a
            multi-ethnic society and political pluralism by fostering an
            independent media, free and fair elections, a responsive and
            transparent government, citizen advocacy, and a professional
            independent judiciary.

   USAID/CAR Central Asian Republics
          Since 1992, The USAID Regional Mission for Central Asia
          (USAID/CAR) has provided more than $650 million in assistance to
          the five newly independent states of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
          Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. In support of U.S.
          foreign policy, USAID's goal in Central Asia is to expand
          opportunities for the citizens of these new nations to fully
          participate in improving their governance, their livelihoods,
          and their quality of life. In these countries, USAID strives to
          achieve four shared objectives: increase enterprise and trade,
          build a more open, democratic culture, better manage water and
          energy resources, and improve quality primary healthcare. In
          Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, USAID also helps improve fiscal
          policy and management, and more responsive, accountable local
          government. Several crosscutting objectives also guide USAID
          assistance: reducing corrupt practices, addressing gender bias,
          mitigating potential for conflict, and expanding information and
          knowledge, especially among youth.

   USAID/Caucasus
          USAID/Caucasus Mission partners with Georgian and Azerbaijani
          counterparts to develop a prosperous and peaceful region based
          on democratic principles, market economies and civic
          participation at all levels. The vision of USAID/Caucasus
          Mission programs is to support a stable, more prosperous
          market-oriented economy that empowers citizens, is governed by
          rule of law and promotes the basic welfare of the population.

   USAID/Congo
          Through its professional staff in the Congo and Washington D.C.,
          USAID-Congo provides financial and technical assistance to
          organizations and institutions working to solve the Congo's
          critical development problems. USAID-Congo works in close
          collaboration with the US Embassy and the United States
          Information Service in the Congo.

   USAID/Croatia
          USAID's program of assistance to Croatia evolved significantly
          during calendar year 2000, following the election of a new
          reform-minded government. From programs aimed only at improving
          political processes, strengthening civil society and
          reintegrating war-affected populations, USAID broadened its
          focus and developed a portfolio of activities that now includes
          for the first time a significant economic agenda as well as
          activities in social transition. The USAID Mission recently
          completed a new, five year strategic planning effort (2001 -
          2005) that details planning in these sectors.

   USAID/Dominican Republic
          On January 11, 1962, USAID opened its Mission in the Dominican
          Republic, making it one of the first countries in which USAID
          was active. Early aid focused on projects in savings and loan
          associations, irrigation and private investment activity. Today,
          USAID's Dominican Republic mission focuses on three areas:
          economic growth; health, population and nutrition; and democracy
          and governance.

   USAID/Egypt
          Following the Camp David Accords in 1978, and in recognition of
          Egypt's moderating role in the Middle East, the United States
          Congress made Egypt one of the largest U.S. economic assistance
          programs in the world.

   USAID/El Salvador
          The United States Agency for International Development Mission
          to El Salvador's Our mission is to work in partnership with El
          Salvador to reduce poverty and strengthen democratic
          institutions and practices...and to fulfill our pledge to keep
          you informed, we invite you to visit our Webpage.

   USAID/Ethiopia
          USAID began the first phase of its long term development
          assistance to Ethiopia in 1995. Total US humanitarian and
          development assistance to Ethiopia in FY 1997 was nearly $78
          million. USAID's development strategy focuses on helping
          Ethiopia feed itself, and strengthening health services, basic
          education, and democracy and governance. USAID continues to be
          prepared to provide humanitarian assistance in years of poor
          weather and low crop yields. Whenever possible, USAID will
          provide humanitarian assistance through food-for-work.

   USAID/Guinea
          The overall USAID program goal in Guinea is "Improved Economic
          and Social Well-being of all Guineans in a Participatory
          Society." USAID/Guinea pursues this goal by investing in
          education and human resources within its basic education,
          natural resource management, democracy and governance, and
          health and family planning programs. Our grass roots poverty
          alleviation program not only allows Guinean citizens to improve
          their wellbeing, but it also prepares its citizens to be active
          participants in the country's transition to a democracy.

   USAID/Haiti
          This site outlines U.S. programs in Haiti to reduce poverty in
          an emerging democratic society - the goal of USAID/Haiti and a
          key component of U.S. interests in this close Caribbean
          neighbor. The challenges in the path of that goal are immense
          and daunting. In short, there are too many people and too few
          resources for the land to support adequately. As the s ituation
          in this fragile nation dances always near catastrophe, we can be
          encouraged that the people of Haiti are working harder than ever
          to improve their lives. USAID, together with its partners and
          other donors, plays a vital role in that effort.

   USAID/Honduras
          Honduras, one of Latin America's poorest nations, strives daily
          to improve its own economic and democratic development with
          USAID assistance. Programs include education, health, economic
          policy, microenterprize, environmental conservation, food
          security, municipal development, and justice sector reform.

   USAID/India
          We have set up this website to communicate to audiences in
          India, and around the world, what the United States Government's
          assistance program is achieving in India and why this work is
          important to India, to the United States, and to you, wherever
          you are.

   USAID/Indonesia
          Next year, USAID will commemorate 50 years of development
          cooperation with Indonesia. The past half-century has witnessed
          substantial achievements and lessons learned in Indonesias
          development. The Agency is proud to have played a role in one of
          the most successful family planning programs in the world, as
          well as health projects benefiting millions of mothers and
          children. U.S. support has helped Indonesia achieve a "Green
          Revolution" that has boosted agricultural output many times
          over. Underlying all USAIDs efforts has been a major focus on
          education and training, which has helped produce thousands of
          skilled Indonesian professionals.

   USAID/Jamaica
          USAID/Jamaica-Caribbean dedicates itself to assisting the people
          of the Caribbean in attaining their full potential - as
          individuals and collectively as nations - by improving the
          quality of their lives and helping them achieve sustainable
          development.

   USAID/Kiev (Ukraine)
          Since 1992, the USAID Regional Mission to Ukraine, Belarus, and
          Moldova has worked with government, non-governmental
          organizations, and implementing partners, to further the
          processes of democratic development, economic restructuring and
          social sector reform in the region.

   USAID/Kosovo and Montenegro
          USAID began operating in Kosovo and Montenegro in 1999. USAIDs
          assistance program in Kosovo helps to foster economic reform,
          democracy, and social transition. In Montenegro, USAID provides
          substantial budget support resources, and also provides
          assistance in economic reform and democracy building.

   USAID/Lebanon
          USAIDs country development strategy springs directly from
          current economic and political conditions in Lebanon, and
          reflects US Government interest in helping the Government of
          Lebanon and the Lebanese people recover from civil war, and
          participate in the Middle East Peace Process. This new strategy
          shifted the program from a mix of humanitarian and developmental
          activities to a total emphasis on sustainable community
          development with multiple objectives and partners. It emphasizes
          the importance of rebuilding rural communities and expanding
          economic opportunities, as well as supporting policy reform and
          environmental protection.

   USAID/Lithuania
          Lithuania's historic revolution in 1991 captured worldwide
          attention, and inspired freedom-loving people everywhere. The
          U.S. Government, together with other western countries, quickly
          mobilized resources to assist Lithuania's transition to the free
          world. Today, the people of Lithuania and the United States are
          in a partnership to build Lithuania's free-market economy and to
          develop a democratic society prepared to meet the challenges of
          the 21st century and the emerging global economy.

   USAID/Mali
          The USAID program in Mali was first established in 1961, then
          rapidly evolved into "Mission" status in the 1970's as the U.S.
          response to the devastating drought of the time. A tribute to
          the utility of the developmental partnerships we have undertaken
          since that time is the fact that Mali has evolved from massive
          food aid dependence in the 1970's, to being a cereals exporter
          the 1990's -- and from centrally-planned military rule to one of
          the most enlightened democracies in the West Africa region. As a
          tribute to Mali's impressive changes in democracy and economic
          reform in recent years, the USAID Mission is one of only five
          "sustainable presence" missions left in West Africa.

   USAID/Morocco
          Since the late 1960's USAID has supported the Government of
          Morocco in both public and private sector health care by
          training health workers, improving preventive health services,
          decentralizing health care, and providing clinical commodities
          and contraceptives, equipment and vehicles. More recently, USAID
          has focused on the provision of basic health care by the private
          sector, and the commercial marketing of contraceptives.

   USAID/Namibia
          To help Namibia redress the economic legacies of colonialism and
          apartheid, strengthen its democracy and curb the spread of
          HIV/AIDS, USAID/Namibia has five Strategic Objectives: small and
          medium enterprise development, basic education, community-based
          natural resource management, legislative and civil society
          strengthening, and HIV/AIDS education and prevention. USAID
          seeks to build synergies among its five portfolios. Tourism
          development, for instance, bridges small and medium enterprise
          development to community-based natural resource management.
          HIV/AIDS prevention activities are being built into all aspects
          of USAIDs program. Throughout its portfolio, USAID seeks to
          strengthen NGOs, advance the status of women, expand access to
          and use of information technologies, and promote the governments
          policy of decentralization.

   USAID/Nepal
          In 1951, the same year the Kingdom of Nepal emerged from its
          self-imposed political and economic isolation, the U.S.
          Government signed an agreement with the His Majesty's Government
          of Nepal to provide economic assistance. During 46 years, the
          U.S. Government has provided over one billion dollars in
          developmental and humanitarian assistance. U.S. bilateral
          development assistance is administered by USAID. USAID's goal is
          to assist development to the point where Nepal can meet the
          needs of its people on a sustainable basis with its own
          resources.

   USAID/Nicaragua
          The United States has been active in promoting broad economic
          growth, creating new jobs, adherence to democratic principles,
          and respect for human rights slows immigration to the United
          States. Focused efforts to stem environmental degradation
          protects vital habitats and helps to assure sustainable
          development. The current U.S. program helped Nicaragua mitigate
          agricultural production losses from the El Niño-produced
          drought.

   USAID/Peru
          USAID/Peru's program addresses Peru's problems of poverty, food
          insecurity, lack of employment, lack of access to health
          services for rural and peri-urban populations, unsustainable use
          of natural resources, democratic development, illicit coca
          cultivation and related problems. The ultimate goal of
          USAID/Peru is to promote broad-based sustainable economic
          development.

          + en Español
          + In English

   USAID/Philippines
          USAID's role in the Philippines is to help the country become a
          model Newly Industrialized Country (NIC). Our U.S. - Philippines
          partnership for democracy and development is a shared commitment
          to mutual economic interest, democracy, and a common concern for
          global issues of environmental degradation, population, and the
          AIDS epidemic.

   USAID Regional Economic Development Services Office For East and
          Southern Africa (REDSO/ESA)
          The USAID Regional  Economic Development Services Office For
          East and Southern Africa (REDSO/ESA) is based in Nairobi,
          Kenya.  This past year has witnessed a transformation of the
          Nairobi regional office to take on expanded regional program and
          analysis mandates.  In moving beyond its traditional
          services-to-bilateral-missions orientation, REDSO/ESA is
          restructuring toward a multi-disciplinary, team-based platform
          for managing and implementing regional initiatives such as the
          GHAI and the expanded humanitarian and transition programs in
          Somalia, Sudan and Burundi. Also, with the African regional
          institutional renaissance in full bloom, REDSO/ESA is taking
          advantage of increased opportunities for regional partnerships
          and concomitant development impact.

   USAID/Romania
          USAIDs assistance program helps to foster Romania's transition
          to a market-oriented democracy through major activities in the
          areas of economic growth, democracy-building and social sector
          restructuring. Between 1990 and 1999, USAID has provided
          approximately $300 million for technical assistance and training
          in Romania in the following areas: privatization, financial
          sector development, private sector development, energy sector
          reform, improved environmental management and protection,
          democratic governance, civil society development, decentralized
          public administration and local government strengthening, womens
          reproductive health and reform of the child welfare system.

   USAID/South Africa
          USAID South Africa supports the South African government and a
          number of civil society organizations to promote effective
          development solutions to transform the country equitably for its
          citizens. USAID's goal is to assist its partners to build the
          capacity of the majority of its people to realise political,
          social and economic empowerment. USAID's activities are designed
          to benefit historically disadvantaged people whose victory over
          decades of racial oppression has been noted as one of the great
          changes in the 20th Century.

   USAID/West Bank-Gaza
          The United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
          administers U.S. Government economic and humanitarian assistance
          programs supporting the Middle East Peace Process.

   USAID/Zambia
          USAID/Zambia's program aims to improve the lives of poor
          Zambians. This supports the United States government's foreign
          policy interest of furthering stable, vibrant, growing economies
          in Africa. In Zambia, USAID is assisting in theconsolidation of
          Zambian Government reforms, focusing on four key sectors:
          increasing rural incomes, basic education, health, and
          democratic governance. The current strategy is aimed at
          fulfilling the promise of reform measures put in place during
          the first part of this decade.


       This site was last updated on Tuesday, 08-Jan-2002 15:03:16 EST
     __________________________________________________________________

     Home | Privacy | What's New? | Directory | Missions | Employment |
                                  Search
        Have a question or comment about USAID or the USAID website?
         Visit our contact page to find the appropriate resource.
