http://www.safecities.gov/results.cfm?ID=18

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Meet the
   SafeCities Network

   Find Your State

   Home
   SafeCities Logo

Measuring Results

   Measure Results


   DATA SOURCES

   About Data Sources: Data on youth well-being is available from a
   variety of national, state and community resources. Key resources
   follow.


   American FactFinder

   American FactFinder provides users with the capability to browse,
   search, and map data from many Census Bureau sources. You can use
   American FactFinder to select data tabulations and maps from the data
   sets available in the system. You can find a profile of selected
   social, economic, or housing characteristics for states, cities,
   counties, congressional districts, and more.

   Assessing the New Federalism

   "Assessing the New Federalism," an Urban Institute Project, is a
   multi-year Urban Institute research project to analyze the devolution
   of responsibility for social programs from the federal government to
   the states, focusing primarily on health care, income security, job
   training, and social services.

   Baltimore City Data Collaborative

   Building on previous data efforts, the Baltimore City Data
   Collaborative was established in May, 1998 to provide data, analysis,
   and evaluation support for the activities of the Family League of
   Baltimore City and the Baltimore Safe & Sound Campaign, as well as to
   serve as a resource for the city as a whole.

   Bridging Gaps in Police Crime Data

   Describes the history of the FBI's Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) system
   and the data problems that it deals with in reporting crime and
   arrests. The report includes a description of the procedures used by
   the FBI to fill in gaps in the data (when they exist) and makes
   suggestions about how they might be improved.

   Bureau of Justice Statistics

   The Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS), a component of the Office of
   Justice Programs in the US Department of Justice, is the United States'
   primary source for criminal justice statistics. BJS collects, analyzes,
   publishes, and disseminates information on crime, criminal offenders,
   victims of crime, and the operation of justice systems at all levels of
   government.

   Census Data - by State

   Contains state and county demographic and economic profiles.

   Centinela Valleys Victim Offender Restitution Services (VORS)

   The Administrative Offices of the Court, Judicial Council of
   California, funded Centinela Valley Juvenile Diversion Projects VORS
   program, and five similar programs statewide, to compare VORS
   restitution and recidivism outcomes with those from regular juvenile
   probation.

   Child Welfare League of America National Data Analysis System

   The CWLA National Data Analysis System (NDAS) provides you with access
   to all states' child abuse and neglect data from 1990 to 1996, with
   some data available for 1997 and 1998. Pre-defined tables and graphs
   are customizable by state and data year, and include data sources and
   notes.

   Children's Bureau

   The oldest federal agency for children, the Children's Bureau (CB) is
   located within the United States Department of Health and Human
   Services' Administration for Children and Families, Administration on
   Children, Youth and Families. It is responsible for assisting States in
   the delivery of child welfare services - services designed to protect
   children and strengthen families. The agency provides grants to States,
   Tribes and communities to operate a range of child welfare services
   including child protective services (child abuse and neglect) family
   preservation and support, foster care, adoption and independent living.

   Children's Defense Fund - State Profiles

   This data includes a range of carefully chosen key indicators that
   measure critical aspects of children's lives. Decisions regarding which
   indicators were to be included have been guided by a combination of
   scientific and practical considerations. CDF included indicators that
   can be easily understood by broad audiences, are based on reliable
   sources, and are timely. The source information for all data in the
   individual state profiles are available.

   ChildStats - National Indicators 1999

   Americas Children: Key National Indicators of Well-Being, 1999,
   developed by the Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family
   Statistics, represents the third annual synthesis of information on the
   status of the Nations most valuable resource, our children. This report
   presents 23 key indicators of the well-being of children.

   ChildStats: The Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family
   Statistics

   This web site offers easy access to federal and state statistics and
   reports on children and their families, including: population and
   family characteristics, economic security, health, behavior and social
   environment, and education. Reports of the Federal Interagency Forum on
   Child and Family Statistics include America's Children: Key National
   Indicators of Well-Being, the annual Federal monitoring report on the
   status of the Nation's children, and Nurturing Fatherhood. The Forum
   fosters coordination and collaboration in the collection and reporting
   of Federal statistics on children and families.

   Crime Continues Decline

   The FBI Uniform Crime Report released this month (October 1999) reports
   the lowest rate of violent crime since 1985 -- 566 violent crimes for
   every 100,000 inhabitants. The murder rate was 6 offenses per 100,000
   inhabitants, the lowest figure since 1967. The criminal offense that
   resulted in the most arrests of people under age 18 was larceny/theft,
   while the most common cause of arrest for adults was drug abuse
   violations.

   Criminal Victimization and Perceptions of Community Safety in 12
   Cities, 1998

   Presents survey data from 12 cities regarding criminal victimization
   and residents' attitudes toward their neighborhood, their city, and the
   local policing services. For the first time in 20 years, BJS in joint
   effort with the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS)
   conducted city-level surveys on crime victimization.

   Developmental Assets: An Investment in Youth

   In an effort to identify the elements of a strength-based approach to
   healthy development, Minnesota-based Search Institute developed the
   framework of developmental assets. This framework identifies 40
   critical factors for young people's growth and development. When drawn
   together, the assets offer a set of benchmarks for positive child and
   adolescent development. The assets clearly show important roles that
   families, schools, congregations, neighborhoods, youth organizations,
   and others in communities play in shaping young people's lives.

   Economic Indicators - by State

   The State New Economy Index, by the Progressive Policy Institute,
   highlights differences among the structural foundations of state
   economies and focuses attention on a progressive policy framework to
   promote economic development in the New Economy.

   Federal Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics

   This web site offers easy access to federal and state statistics and
   reports on children and their families, including: population and
   family characteristics, economic security, health, behavior and social
   environment, and education

   FedStats

   More than 70 agencies in the United States Federal Government produce
   statistics of interest to the public. The Federal Interagency Council
   on Statistical Policy maintains this site to provide easy access to the
   full range of statistics and information produced by these agencies for
   public use.

   Firearm Injury from Crime: Firearms, Crime, and Criminal Justice

   This document reports available statistical information on fatal and
   nonfatal firearm injury that results from crime from a number of
   sources. Findings include -- Of the victims of nonfatal violent crime
   who faced an assailant armed with a firearm, 3% suffered gunshot
   wounds. An estimated 57,500 nonfatal gunshot wounds from assaults were
   treated in hospital emergency departments from June 1992 through May
   1993. Over half of these victims were black males; a quarter were black
   males age 15-24. The firearm injury rate for police officers declined
   in the early 1980s and began climbing again after 1987, but has not
   exceeded the peak reached in 1980-81.

   Firearms and Crime Statistics

   Publications and resources on Firearms and Crime Statistics from the
   Bureau of Justice Statistics.

   From Words To Weapons, the Violence Surrounding our Schools

   ACLU report on one of the largest research studies of its type ever
   conducted. For this study, 1,802 students at 11 high schools and
   several continuation schools of the Los Angeles Unified School District
   were surveyed on a range of issues related to their experiences with
   violence, their own and their friends' weapons possession and their
   suggestions for ways to lessen violence, racial tension and conflict.

   High Point, NC: One City's Success In Reducing Gun Viloence

   High Point, NC, gives a detailed PowerPoint presentation of the
   strategy used to reduce gun violence in their community.

   Indicators of School Crime and Safety, 1998, 10/98.

   The annual report includes national school crime data, successful
   strategies to reduce school violence, and a local safety checklist for
   parents. Indicators of School Crime and Safety, 1998 presents data on
   crime at school from the perspectives of students, teachers,
   principals, and the general population, using a comprehensive array of
   sources.

   Kids Count

   KIDS COUNT is a national and state-by-state project of the Casey
   Foundation to track the status of children in the United States. The
   site contains custom graphs, maps, rankings, state profiles, and more!

   Midwest Research Institute Outcome Indicators Management

   Midwest Research Institute (MRI) has developed a proprietary software
   system, CIRES, that establishes a new standard of ease for working with
   outcome indicators data sets. CIRES (Computerized Indicator Retrieval
   and Evaluation System) is a Windows-based program that makes it
   possible for analysts to quickly retrieve data and produce tables,
   graphs, and maps with the click of a button.

   National Academy of Public Administration

   Various resources, case studies, reports and other data listed by
   state.

   National Center for Children in Poverty

   The National Center for Children in Poverty focuses on three enduring
   and interdependent sets of mission-driven activities: 1) Defining the
   nature, scope, and impact of young child poverty; 2) Identifying and
   evaluating strategies to improve the lives of young children in poverty
   and to reduce the young child poverty rate; and 3) Communicating facts
   about young child poverty and promoting strategies to reduce the young
   child poverty rate and help children overcome the risks associated with
   poverty.

   National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS)

   NCHS is the Federal Government's principal vital and health statistics
   agency. The agency provides a wide variety of data with which to
   monitor the Nation's health. NCHS data systems include data on vital
   events as well as information on health status, lifestyle and exposure
   to unhealthy influences, the onset and diagnosis of illness and
   disability, and the use of health care.

   Nonfatal and Fatal Firearm-Related Injuries -- United States, 1993-1997

   Report on decline in nonfatal and fatal firearm-related injury rates in
   the U.S. population from 1993 through 1997 from the Centers for Disease
   Control, Office of Statistics and Programming and Div of Violence
   Prevention, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control Office of
   Statistics and Programming and Div of Violence Prevention, National
   Center for Injury Prevention and Control.

   Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention

   The OJJDP Web site is designed to provide information and resources on
   both general areas of interest about juvenile justice and delinquency
   including conferences, funding opportunities, and new publications and
   the comprehensive strategy as a framework for communities to combat
   youth crime.

   Rates of Homicide, Suicide, and Firearm-Related Death Among Children --
   26 Industrialized Countries

   To compare patterns and the impact of violent deaths among children in
   the United States and other industrialized countries, the Centers for
   Disease Control analyzed data on childhood homicide, suicide, and
   firearm-related death in the United States and 25 other industrialized
   countries for the most recent year for which data were available in
   each country (4). This report presents the findings of this analysis,
   which indicate that the United States has the highest rates of
   childhood homicide, suicide, and firearm-related death among
   industrialized countries.

   Snapshots of Americas Families: Variations in Health Care across States

   This paper presents preliminary findings from the 1997 National Survey
   of Americas Families (NSAF), a household survey providing information
   on over 100,000 children and non-elderly adults representing the
   noninstitutionalized civilian population under age 65. The primary
   focus is on health insurance coverage and several measures of access to
   care. (NOTE: Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to view this report.)

   State Attorneys General

   Index of state Attorneys General and other state criminal justice
   offices.

   State Corrections Departments

   Index of state Correction and Rehabilitation Departments.

   State Public Safety/Police Departments

   Index of Public Safety Departments and/or Police Departments.

   Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA)

   The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration is the
   Federal agency charged with improving the quality and availability of
   prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation services in order to reduce
   illness, death, disability, and cost to society resulting from
   substance abuse and mental illnesses.

   The National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug Information

   The National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug Information (NCADI) is
   the information service of the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention of
   the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in the
   U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. NCADI is the world's
   largest resource for current information and materials concerning
   substance abuse.

   The Right Start: Conditions of Babies and Their Families in Americas
   Largest Cities

   In this KIDS COUNT Special Report, The Right Start: Conditions of
   Babies and Their Families in Americas Largest Cities, the Casey
   Foundation highlights the particular challenges faced by newborns and
   their parents in the nations major urban areas. The foundation is
   especially interested in the implications for the millions of kids born
   into families living in the toughest neighborhoods of our biggest
   cities.

   The Southern Regional Initiative to Improve Access to Benefits for Low
   Income Families With Children

   The Southern Regional Initiatives report discusses issues and
   strategies states can consider in providing health coverage for more
   low income children. The chapter also discusses federal policies that
   restrict access to Medicaid coverage, as identified on the state
   visits. The chapter outlines Medicaid issues related to families
   leaving welfare for work and low-income families who have no connection
   to the welfare system. Information is also presented on state Medicaid
   eligibility levels for children as of September 1, 1997 and state
   Medicaid plan amendments submitted by southern states as part of the
   State Child Health Insurance Program (CHIP). And finally, the chapter
   contains a discussion of eligibility outreach and eligibility
   simplification issues, including common applications.

   Vermont's Outcomes, Indicators and General Compilations of Data

   Key outcomes and indicators are reported at the community and county
   levels by school Supervisory Union. Committed to improving the safety
   and well-being of Vermont's citizens, especially its children, these
   publications provide support for the collaborations between State
   government and localized nonprofit organizations that are necessary to
   deliver needed services in the most effective manner possible. Data is
   presented at the SU or county level.

   Weapons Offenses and Offenders: Firearms, Crime, and Criminal Justice

   Weapons Offenses and Offenders: Firearms, Crime, and Criminal Justice.
   This report presents data on how the criminal and juvenile justice
   systems deal with weapons offenses (violations of statutes or
   regulations that control deadly weapons) and offenders from arrest
   through incarceration. The report uses data from many sources,
   including the FBI Uniform Crime Reports, the National Center for
   Juvenile Justice Juvenile Court Statistics, the BJS Pretrial Reporting
   Program, the BJS National Judicial Reporting Program, the BJS Survey of
   Inmates of State Correctional Facilities, and the BJS Federal Case
   Processing Data.

   Welfare Information Network

   This site is a Clearinghouse for Information, Policy Analysis &
   Technical Assistance on Welfare Reform. This is a must see sight! Any
   type of welfare information imaginable can be found in this one place.
   Rural issues, evaluation strategies, events, publications, health
   insurance, and domestic violence are just a few of the sub-links within
   this site.

   YouthInfo

   YouthInfo is a website developed by the U.S. Department of Health and
   Human Services to provide you with the latest information about
   Americas adolescents.

   Youth-Related Statistics

   A list youth-related statistical information compiled by the National
   Youth Development Information Center.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
