http://neat.jpl.nasa.gov/supernov.htm

                  NASA'S ASTEROID HUNTERS NET A SURPRISE CATCH

                                                            March 11, 1999

   Astronomers searching for asteroids headed toward Earth have stumbled
   upon a harmless but fascinating discovery -- an exploding star, also
   known as a supernova.

   The supernova, named 1999am, is located in a galaxy about 650 million
   light-years away. (A light-year is the distance light travels in one
   year, about 9.5 trillion kilometers or 6 trillion miles.) The star was
   unknown to astronomers until it was captured by the camera on NASA's
   Near Earth Asteroid Tracking (NEAT) system on February 18. The NEAT
   images show the star as it looked just a few weeks after the ancient
   explosion took place.

   "We were fishing for salmon, and instead we caught a whale," said Dr.
   Steven Pravdo, project manager and co-investigator for NEAT. "The
   project is designed to look for asteroids and other objects that might
   pose a potential hazard to Earth. This supernova discovery is an added
   bonus for astronomers in general."

   Supernova 1999am is a "Type Ia supernova," which means that before it
   exploded, it was a white dwarf star in orbit with a companion star.
   Near the end of its life, the white dwarf captured so much material
   from its companion that it became too massive to support itself, and
   exploded with as much energy as 100 billion suns. The supernova is now
   nearly as bright as the galaxy surrounding it, which is known as CGCG
   060-009.

   NEAT, with asteroid hunter Eleanor Helin as principal investigator, has
   been in operation since December 1995. It uses a large, sensitive and
   fully automated charge- coupled device (CCD) camera mounted on a
   1-meter-diameter (39-inch) telescope. The telescope is operated by the
   U.S. Air Force atop Mt. Haleakela on the island of Maui, HI.

   Since the middle of 1998, NEAT scientists have posted their data on a
   web site through a program called SkyMorph, a collaboration between JPL
   and NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD. While the NEAT
   project detects Earth-approaching objects by looking for celestial
   bodies that move over a period of time, the data can be used also to
   hunt for stationary objects that become brighter or dimmer over time.
   Thus, the images present a smorgasbord of astronomical options -- NEAT
   scientists pick out asteroids, while other astronomers select various
   cosmic morsels through the public SkyMorph web site.

   "Through SkyMorph, astronomers may find an array of interesting
   objects, including supernovae," said Pravdo, principal investigator for
   SkyMorph. "In this case, we sent our data directly to the Lawrence
   Berkeley National Laboratory in Berkeley, California. Dr. Greg Aldering
   and other scientists with their Supernova Cosmology Project immediately
   found 1999am."

   Pravdo said the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory scientists found
   the supernova by comparing images taken in February with previous NEAT
   data. They could clearly see a change in brightness, indicating the
   star had exploded and become a supernova. They further confirmed their
   finding with additional observations by ground-based telescopes.
   February 18 marked the first time NEAT scientists forwarded new data
   directly to the Berkeley lab, and as Pravdo pointed out, "We struck
   paydirt."

   For information and an image of 1999am, go to the following web site:
   http://huey.jpl.nasa.gov/~spravdo/snanima.htm.

   For more information on the NEAT project, go to
   http://huey.jpl.nasa.gov/~spravdo/neat.html.

   Information on SkyMorph is available at
   http://skys.gsfc.nasa.gov/skymorph/skymorph.html.

   Dr. Thomas McGlynn is lead scientist for SkyMorph at Goddard. The NEAT
   and SkyMorph projects are managed by JPL for NASA's Office of Space
   Science, Washington, DC. JPL is a division of the California Institute
   of Technology, Pasadena, CA.

   For more information, go to http://www.jpl.nasa.gov. JPL is a division
   of the California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA.

   #####

   3-11-99 JP

   #99-017

   MEDIA RELATIONS OFFICE

   JET PROPULSION LABORATORY

   CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

   NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION

   PASADENA, CALIF. 91109 TELEPHONE (818) 354-5011

   http://www.jpl.nasa.gov

   Contact: Jane Platt

   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
