http://isc.gsfc.nasa.gov/Conferences/Conferences.cfm


   ISC Logo
   Use the GO button to trigger SEARCH Use the GO button to trigger SEARCH
     click HERE to goto ADVANCED Search
   __________________
   Go
      Home    SiteMap
   Conferences by Month


                 List by Month

   List by Title    List by Location

      February 2002

          Starting Date: February 2, 2002
          Ending Date:  February 6, 2002
          HPCA-8: Eight International Symposium on High-Performance
          Computer Architecture
          The International Symposium on High-Performance Computer
          Architecture provides a high quality forum for scientists and
          engineers to present their latest research findings in this
          rapidly changing field. Authors are invited to submit full
          papers on all aspects of high-performance computer architecture.
          Cambridge, MA
          Papers Deadline: 13 July 2001

          Starting Date: February 3, 2002
          Ending Date:  February 3, 2002
          NSC-1: 1st Workshop on Non-Silicon Computation
          This one-day workshop, held in conjunction with the 8th
          International Symposium on High Performance Computer
          Architecture (HPCA-8), will explore the issues involved in
          creating computing systems built from devices other than
          silicon-based transistors. The amazing success of computing over
          the past thirty years is based in large part on advances in the
          fabrication of CMOS-based integrated circuits, and both
          engineers and consumers have come to expect and plan for
          exponential increases in system performance over time. However,
          a number of physical and economic factors threaten the continued
          scaling of CMOS devices, motivating research into computing
          systems based on other technologies.
          A number of alternatives to silicon VLSI have been proposed,
          including techniques based on molecular electronics, quantum
          mechanics, and biological processes. This workshop will focus on
          the architectures, compilers, and programming models necessary
          to exploit novel computing technologies that will replace (or
          co-exist) with CMOS.
          Cambridge, MA
          Papers Deadline: 7 December 2001
          POC: Nick Carter  University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

          Starting Date: February 4, 2002
          Ending Date:  February 5, 2002
          ICCBSS2002: International Conference on COTS-Based Software
          Systems
          Industry and government systems are relying more and more on
          commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) software in order to keep
          development and maintenance costs low and keep pace with
          technological advances. The International Conference on
          COTS-Based Software Systems (ICCBSS) is the first conference to
          focus solely on the challenges of creating and maintaining large
          systems that incorporate COTS products. We invite you to share
          your experiences and expertise in managing, constructing, and
          maintaining such COTS-based software systems at this exciting
          new forum.
          Orlando, FL
          POC: ICCBSS2002  phone +1 412 268-3007

          Starting Date: February 26, 2002
          Ending Date:  February 28, 2002
          Science Data Processing Workshop 2002
          Science Data Processing Workshop 2002 explores ways to deliver
          science data from Space and Earth science missions to users in a
          more timely, cost effective manner. Workshop participants will
          identify and discuss ways to reduce the development time and
          costs associated with getting data from the missions to the
          scientist, educator, policy maker and operational users. The
          workshop encourages networking with other scientists and data
          processing system developers to share software tools, ideas, and
          methodologies that form a common thread across multiple
          projects, missions and instruments. Activities planned for this
          workshop:
          - explore new methodologies
          - exchange new ideas for innovative approaches
          - examine lessons learned
          - identify areas for collaboration
          Greenbelt, MD
          Abstracts Deadline: 28 September 2001
          POC: SDPWORKSHOP

      March 2002

          Starting Date: March 7, 2002
          Ending Date:  March 8, 2002
          IPTPS'02: 1st International Workshop on Peer-to-Peer Systems
          Peer-to-peer has emerged as a promising new paradigm for
          distributed computing. The 1st International Workshop on
          Peer-to-Peer Systems (IPTPS'02) aims to provide a forum for
          researchers active in peer-to-peer computing to discuss the
          state-of-the-art and to identify key research challenges in
          peer-to-peer computing. The goal of the workshop is to examine
          peer-to-peer technologies, applications and systems, and also to
          identify key research issues and challenges that lie ahead. In
          the context of this workshop, peer-to-peer systems are
          characterized as being decentralized, self-organizing
          distributed systems, in which all or most communication is
          symmetric.
          The program of the workshop will be a combination of invited
          review talks, presentations of position papers, and discussions.
          To ensure a productive workshop environment, attendance will be
          limited to about 35 participants who are active in the field.
          Each potential participant should submit a position paper of 5
          pages or less that exposes a new problem, advocates a specific
          solution, or reports on actual experience. Participants will be
          invited based on the originality, technical merit and topical
          relevance of their submissions, as well as the likelihood that
          the ideas expressed in their submissions will lead to insightful
          technical discussions at the workshop. Please do not submit
          abbreviated versions of journal or conference papers.
          Cambridge, MA
          Papers Deadline: 3 December 2001

          Starting Date: March 9, 2002
          Ending Date:  March 16, 2002
          IEEE Aerospace Conference
          This is the twenty-third in a series of annual weeklong winter
          conferences designed for aerospace experts, academia, military
          personnel, and industry leaders in a stimulating and
          thought-provoking environment. The Conference promotes
          interdisciplinary understanding of aerospace systems, their
          underlying science and technology, and their applications to
          government and commercial endeavors. Attendees enjoy exceptional
          access to authors and invited speakers in a unique setting,
          fertile ground for developing lasting relationships benefiting
          participants, their organizations, and the engineering,
          scientific, and aerospace communities far beyond the Conference.
          Big Sky, MT
          Abstracts Deadline: 6 July 2001
          Papers Deadline: 1 October 2001
          POC: Charles Chidekel  Goddard POC

          Starting Date: March 11, 2002
          Ending Date:  March 13, 2002
          KT2002: Knowledge Technologies 2002 Conference
          KT2002 or the Knowledge Technologies 2002 Conference is the
          natural consequence of the rapidly growing interest in
          technologies that will provide tools to the knowledge management
          community and make the Semantic Web a reality.KT2002 is the
          perfect opportunity to catch up with the latest developments in
          this quickly emerging world of Knowledge Technologies.
          This conference is designed to provide bridges among the
          following critical knowledge communities:
          - Knowledge Representation/Artificial Intelligence
          - Knowledge Organization/Libraries
          - Internet/Semantic Web
          - Document/Asset Management
          - Knowledge Management
          - Expert Systems/Agent Computing
          - Machine Learning
          Seattle, WA
          POC: Jane Harnad  Conference Director 703.837.1095

          Starting Date: March 11, 2002
          Ending Date:  March 15, 2002
          QWE 2002: 5th Annual International Software & Internet Quality
          Week Europe
          The QWE2001 International Advisory Board has assembled a
          terrific international team of over 60 speakers. Discover the
          state-of-the-art in software and internet QA and testing from
          around the world: from the USA to the UK, from Canada to Brazil,
          from Europe to China!
          Our goal of bringing together industry and academic, software
          and internet oriented, European and non-European specialists,
          has been reached!
          Brussels, Belgium
          POC: Rita Bral  Conference Director

          Starting Date: March 13, 2002
          Ending Date:  March 15, 2002
          GSAW2002: Sixth Ground System Architectures Workshop
          GSAW2002 is the sixth annual workshop to facilitate the
          exploration of issues and potential for consensus relating to
          software and system architectures for spacecraft ground systems
          (SGS). The annual workshop provides a forum for SGS users,
          developers, and researchers to share their experiences through
          presentations, working groups, and panel discussions. Emphasis
          is on the dissemination of new ideas and lessons learned in the
          creation, application, and evaluation of architectures to meet
          the technological challenges of SGS development.
          El Segundo, CA
          Abstracts Deadline: 16 November 2001
          POC: GSAW  Sue Fung at 310-336-7073

          Starting Date: March 17, 2002
          Ending Date:  March 21, 2002
          Space and Robotics 2002: The 8th International Conference and
          Exposition on Engineering, Construction, Operations, and
          Business in Space colocated with the 5th International
          Conference and Exposition on Robotics for Challenging Situations
          a
          Space 2002 focuses on developing the resources of Greater Earth,
          the space encompassing Earth, Mars and Near-Earth Asteroids, for
          Humankind.
          Robotics 2002 focuses on enhancing robotics developments and
          technologies for operations in difficult and hazardous
          environments.
          Albuquerque, NM
          Abstracts Deadline: 15 June 2001
          Papers Deadline: 15 September 2001
          POC: Dave Klingler  Space 2002 and Robotics 2002 General Chair
          (505) 255-0653

          Starting Date: March 18, 2002
          Ending Date:  March 23, 2002
          CSUN's 17th Annual International Conference "Technology and
          Persons with Disabilities"
          A Preregistration brochure with complete information about the
          conference will be available in early January 2002. Check our
          website regularly for conference information updates at:
          www.csun.edu/cod/
          WHO SHOULD ATTEND?
          Persons with disabilities and family members
          University professors and researchers
          Alternative & Augmentative Communication clinicians
          Government agency EEO personnel and OHR policy makers
          Accessibility engineers
          Assistive Technology practitioners and manufacturers
          Los Angeles, CA

          Starting Date: March 22, 2002
          Ending Date:  March 23, 2002
          LCR'02: Sixth Workshop on Languages, Compilers, and Run-time
          Systems for Scalable Computers
          The Workshop on Languages, Compilers, and Run-time Systems for
          Scalable Computers (LCR) is a bi-annual gathering of computer
          scientists who develop software systems for parallel and
          distributed computers, held in the off-year for PPoPP.
          Attendance is limited to 75 participants. We will attempt to
          accommodate all authors, but in the event of multi-author papers
          with many authors, we may have to limit the number of
          participants per paper. The LCR community is interested in a
          broad range of technologies, with a common goal of developing
          systems that enable real applications.
          The organization of high-end computer systems is undergoing a
          dramatic shift, fueled by the improving speeds of commodity
          networks and processors, and is enabling new applications.
          High-end computer systems now include MPPs, shared memory
          systems, distributed shared memory, and (possibly heterogeneous)
          clusters of uniprocessors and multiprocessors. For this sixth
          meeting, LCR'02, we are especially soliciting papers that
          describe emerging applications as well as software support for
          these applications.
          Washington, DC
          Papers Deadline: 8 February 2002
          POC: LCR'02 UMD  Phone: (301) 405-8010 Fax: (716) 405-6707

      April 2002

          Starting Date: April 3, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 4, 2002
          EvoCOP 2002: 2ND EUROPEAN WORKSHOP ON EVOLUTIONARY COMPUTATION
          IN COMBINATORIAL OPTIMIZATION
          Evolutionary algorithms have often been shown to be effective
          for difficult combinatorial optimization problems appearing in
          various industrial, economical, and scientific domains.
          Prominent examples of such problems are transportation problems,
          vehicle routing, traveling salesperson, satisfiability, packing,
          network design, or general mixed integer programming. The
          workshop is sponsored by EvoNet, the Network of Excellence in
          Evolutionary Computing, and will be held in conjunction with
          EuroGP2002, the European Conference on Genetic Programming
          (April 3-5), EvoIASP, the 4th European Workshop on Image
          Analysis and Signal Processing, and EvoSTIM, the 3rd European
          Workshop on Scheduling and Timetabling.
          Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:
          - Applications of evolutionary algorithms and related heuristics
          like simulated annealing or ant systems to combinatorial
          optimization problems
          - Representation techniques
          - Evolutionary operators
          - Constraint-handling techniques
          - Hybrid methods
          - Parallelization
          - Theoretical developments, search space analyses
          - Comparisons between different (also non-evolutionary)
          techniques
          Kinsale, Ireland
          POC: Jens Gottlieb  Co-chair phone: +49(6227)7-49356 fax:
          +49(6227)78-32766

          Starting Date: April 6, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 14, 2002
          ETAPS'2002: The European Joint Conferences on Theory and
          Practice of Software
          The European Joint Conferences on Theory and Practice of
          Software (ETAPS) is a loose and open confederation of existing
          and new conferences and other events that has become the primary
          European forum for academic and industrial researchers working
          on topics relating to Software Science.
          Grenoble, France
          POC: José Luiz Fiadeiro  Chairman

          Starting Date: April 13, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 13, 2002
          COCV'2002: International Workshop on Compiler Optimization Meets
          Compiler Verification
          In conjunction with the 5th European Joint Conferences on Theory
          and Practice of Software
          Grenoble, France
          Papers Deadline: 3 December 2001
          POC: Jens Knoop

          Starting Date: April 15, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 18, 2002
          NASA Goddard Conference on Mass Storage Systems and Technologies
          in cooperation with IEEE Symposium on Mass Storage Systems
          The Conference provides a forum for discussion of issues
          relevant to the management of large volumes of data. The
          Conference encourages all interested organizations to discuss
          long term mass storage requirements and experiences in fielding
          solutions. Emphasis is on current and future practical solutions
          addressing issues in data management, storage systems and media,
          data acquisition, long term retention of data and data
          distribution.
          Adelphi, MD
          Abstracts Deadline: 1 October 2001
          Papers Deadline: 30 November 2001
          POC: Ben Kobler  Phone: 301-614-5231

          Starting Date: April 15, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 16, 2002
          WPDRTS2002: Tenth International Workshop on Parallel and
          Distributed Real-Time Systems
          Real-time and embedded systems have rapidly advanced from simple
          application-specific embedded systems handling periodic updates
          from sensors to include large distributed heterogeneous systems
          designed for asynchronous and dynamic operation with high
          degrees of flexibility, autonomy, quality of service, and
          reliability.
          The International Workshop on Parallel and Distributed Real-Time
          Systems is a forum for the presentation and discussion of
          approaches, research findings, and experiences in the
          applications of large-scale parallel and distributed real-time
          systems. Of interest are both the development of relevant
          technology (e.g.: hardware, middleware, tools) as well as the
          applications built using such technology.
          WPDRTS brings together industry, academia, and government
          researchers to discuss and exchange ideas in the area of
          large-scale parallel and distributed real-time and embedded
          systems and to explore the special needs and issues in applying
          these technologies to defense and commercial applications.
          Special Session: This year there will be a special session on
          autonomous hot-spot convergence! The problem statement is
          available at
          http://comp.uark.edu/~aapon/wpdrts2002/problem2002.pdf.
          Fort Lauderdale, FL
          Papers Deadline: 10 November 2001
          POC: Barb Pfarr  Program Co-Chair, NASA/GSFC

          Starting Date: April 19, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 26, 2002
          FIC2002: Fédération Internationale des Géomètres (International
          Federation of Surveyors)
          The FIG 2002 Congress will serve as an important international
          forum to advance the global role of surveying. The theme
          Geomatics and Property Valuation for Global Sustainable
          Development focuses on the nature of geomatics as the foundation
          for land management and its role in global economics. The
          program of workshops, plenary sessions and technical sessions
          will be chosen and directed by the 10 FIG Technical Commissions.
          Washington, DC
          POC: Mary Clawson  Director

          Starting Date: April 19, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 20, 2002
          SEMWEB@KR2002: Formal Ontology, Knowledge Representation and
          Intelligent Systems for the World Wide Web
          To realize the vision of the ``Semantic Web'' contributions by
          different communities within the field of Artificial
          Intelligence will be needed. SemWeb@KR02 wants to provide a
          forum to compare and discuss the different perspectives on the
          problem of adding meaning to the Web. The workshop will
          particularly welcome contributions that are of a general
          multidisciplinary interest.
          On the one hand, creating semantic annotations for the World
          Wide Web is an interesting topic for researchers working on
          formal ontologies as tools for knowledge management--a
          particularly relevant topic for the Semantic Web community--and
          more generally, for those concerned with ontology-driven Web
          applications.
          On the other hand, this topic is equally interesting for those
          who are developing languages for the representation of knowledge
          on the World Wide Web, both for general purposes and for
          restricted domains like space, time, etc.
          In addition, this topic is relevant to strictly applied research
          such as ontology-based web portals or semantic web search
          engines. The workshop will therefore reserve a specific space
          for the presentation of prototypes and real-world applications,
          as well as for true software exhibitions.
          In particular, for these application, we strongly encourage
          people to describe detailed use cases and scenarios which
          REQUIRE a semantic web.
          Toulose, France
          Abstracts Deadline: 15 February 2002
          POC: Matteo Cristani  Universita di Verona, Italy

          Starting Date: April 22, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 25, 2002
          KR2002: Eighth International Conference on Principles of
          Knowledge Representation and Reasoning
          Knowledge Representation and Reasoning (KR&R) is a vibrant and
          exciting field of human endeavor. KR&R techniques are key
          drivers of innovation in computer science, and they have lead to
          significant advances in practical applications in a wide range
          of areas from Artificial Intelligence to Software Engineering.
          Explicit representations of knowledge manipulated by reasoning
          engines are an integral and crucial component of intelligent
          systems. Semantic Web technologies and the design of software
          agents, in particular, provide significant challenges for KR&R.
          We intend KR2002 to be a place for the exchange of news, issues,
          and results among the community of researchers in the principles
          and practices of KR&R systems. We encourage papers that present
          substantial new results in the principles of KR&R systems while
          clearly showing the applicability of those results to
          implemented or implementable systems. We also encourage "reports
          from the field'' of applications, experiments, developments, and
          tests. Such papers should be explicitly identified as reports
          from the field by the authors, to ensure appropriate reviewing.
          KR2002 will collocate with the Sixth International Conference on
          Artificial Intelligence Planning and Scheduling Systems
          (AIPS2002), with one day in common. We strongly encourage papers
          which would be of interest to both communities.
          Toulouse, France
          POC: Fausto Giunchiglia  Conference Chair

          Starting Date: April 23, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 27, 2002
          AIPS'02: Sixth International Conference on AI Planning &
          Scheduling
          The International Conference on AI Planning & Scheduling (AIPS)
          is a well established scientific meeting for the presentation of
          new results in the growing field of planning and scheduling. The
          continuity of the AIPS conference serie is ensured by the
          Artificial Intelligence Planning and Scheduling (AIPS) Executive
          Council.
          The format of the conference will be along a 3 days, single
          track, technical program, highlighted by 3 invited talks. This
          technical program will be preceded by 2 days of workshops and
          tutorials and by the 3rd edition of AIPS planning and scheduling
          competition. AIPS'02 will be co-located with the 8th
          International Conference on Principles of Knowledge
          Representation and Reasoning (KR'02), the 2nd International
          Conference on Knowledge Systems for Coalition Operations
          (KSCO'02), and the 8th International Workshop on Non-Monotonic
          Reasoning (NMR'02).
          Toulouse, France
          POC: AIPS

          Starting Date: April 23, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 24, 2002
          ICCS2002: The 2002 International Conference on Computational
          Science
          Computational Science is increasingly becoming a vital part of
          many scientific investigations, affecting researchers and
          practitioners in areas ranging from aerospace and automotive, to
          chemistry, electronics, geosciences, to mathematics, and
          physics.
          Due to the sheer size of many challenges in computational
          science, the use of supercomputing, parallel processing, and
          sophisticated algorithms, is inevitable. This Conference aims to
          bring together researchers and scientists from mathematics and
          computer science as basic computing disciplines, researchers
          from various application areas who are pioneering advanced
          application of computational methods to sciences such as
          physics, chemistry, life sciences, and engineering, arts and
          humanitarian fields, along with software developers and vendors,
          to discuss problems and solutions in the area, to identify new
          issues, and to shape future directions for research, as well as
          to help industrial users apply various advanced computational
          techniques.
          Amsterdam, The Netherlands
          Papers Deadline: 1 November 2001
          POC: Jack Dongarra  Co-chair (USA) Tel: 1-865-974-8295 Fax:
          1-865-974-8296

          Starting Date: April 25, 2002
          Ending Date:  April 27, 2002
          FIEOS: Future Intelligent Earth Observing Satellites
          The future of earth observing satellite systems lies with
          incorporation of intelligence into the systems. With the
          increasing need for acquiring timely Earth observing
          information, for controlling costs, and for dealing with the
          increased complexity of remote sensing systems, incorporation of
          intelligence in satellite systems is crucial for timely and
          cost-effective information collection and dissemination.
          Intelligent satellite systems will include a space-based
          architecture capable of dynamic and comprehensive on-board
          integration of Earth observing sensors, data processors, and
          communication systems. This will enable simultaneous, global
          measurements and timely dissemination and analyses of the Earths
          environment for real-time, mobile, and general users in the
          remote sensing, photogrammetry, and geographic information
          system (GIS) communities. This symposium will bring together the
          private sector, government agencies, and universities to discuss
          the possibility and feasibility of such intelligent systems for
          2010 and beyond. It will also facilitate interactions between
          international planning and data user communities to arrive at
          the needs and requirements for future intelligent Earth
          observing satellite systems for global applications.
          Ovelaps FIG2002 and the ACSM Annual Conference
          Washington, DC
          Abstracts Deadline: 30 November 2001
          POC: Dr. R. Yang  Workshop Secretariat, Tel: (703) 993-3615;
          Fax: (703) 993-3628

      May 2002

          Starting Date: May 7, 2002
          Ending Date:  May 7, 2002
          Semantic Web Workshop 2002
          The Semantic Web workshop at WWW-2002 will complement the
          Semantic Web track at the main conference (and other related
          events) by providing a forum for active discussion on the
          current achievements, pitfalls, and the future research
          directions of the Semantic Web. Our goal is to provide a forum
          for fruitful discussion sessions rather than a mini-conference.
          We solicit papers, but at the workshop itself the emphasis will
          be on sharing experiences with time for all participants to
          contribute to the discussion. The workshop will be structured
          around group discussions designed to help us achieve greater
          understanding of the following issues: What are the recent
          successes in Artificial Intelligence, Databases and Information
          Integration, and other Computer Science fields that are relevant
          to the Semantic Web? What are the unique challenges of the
          Semantic Web that do not allow us to apply that research
          directly. How do we overcome these challenges? What are new
          areas of basic research that the Semantic Web needs? What are
          possible killer apps for the Semantic Web? How can we achieve
          the critical mass of ontologies, annotated data, tools, agents
          to make the Semantic Web as ubiquitous as the regular Web is
          today?
          Honolulu, HI
          Papers Deadline: 1 March 2002
          POC: Martin Frank  workshop co-organizer

          Starting Date: May 7, 2002
          Ending Date:  May 7, 2002
          WWW2002 Workshop On Mobile Search
          The dramatic increase in the use and availability of mobile
          devices such as cellular phones and Personal Digital Assistants
          (PDAs) in the last few years has resulted in the ability to
          access information anytime and anywhere. IDC, a leading provider
          of technology intelligence, forecasts that by the end of 2002
          there will be more wireless subscribers capable of Internet
          access than wired Internet users. Yet, we are still far from
          realizing the dream of having Web information as conveniently
          accessible from a handheld device as it is from our desktop.
          Existing information discovery mechanisms for searching and
          browsing the Web are not well suited to mobile devices, which
          are limited in terms of processing power and memory, screen real
          estate, input capabilities, networks and bandwidth.
          In this workshop, we will explore several issues involved in
          making mobile search both practical and effective, and
          investigate the various challenges imposed in attempting to
          bring search to the mobile world.
          Workshop is held in conjunction with the WWW2002 Conference
          Honolulu, HI
          Papers Deadline: 15 January 2002 (short position paper)
          POC: Aya Soffer  Organizing Committee

          Starting Date: May 7, 2002
          Ending Date:  May 11, 2002
          WWW2002: Eleventh International World Wide Web Conference
          The conference will consist of a three-day technical program,
          preceded by a day of tutorials and workshops and followed by a
          "Developers Day." The technical program will include refereed
          paper presentations, alternate track presentations, plenary
          sessions, panels and poster sessions describing current work.
          The tutorials and workshops will provide in-depth looks at
          specific areas of current interest. Developers Day will be
          devoted to in-depth technical sessions designed specifically for
          Web developers.
          Honolulu, HI
          POC: WWW2002  conference organization

          Starting Date: May 15, 2002
          Ending Date:  May 17, 2002
          ISHPC-IV: The 4th International Symposium on High Performance
          Computing
          The objective of the fourth International Symposium on High
          Performance Computing (ISHPC-IV) is to exchange the latest
          research results in software, hardware and applications for high
          performance computing in the near future. The symposium will
          bring together researchers, developers and advanced users from
          academia, business and industry to share information and to
          explore novel ideas in high performance computing.
          Kansai Science City, Japan
          Papers Deadline: 1 December 2001
          POC: Prof. Kazuki Joe  Nara Women's University

          Starting Date: May 15, 2002
          Ending Date:  May 15, 2002
          WOMPEI 2002: International Workshop on OpenMP: Experiences and
          Implementations
          OpenMP is emerging as an industry standard interface for shared
          memory programming of parallel computer applications. OpenMP
          offers a way to write applications with a shared memory
          programming model portable to a wide range of parallel
          computers. In addition, a number of research groups are devoting
          their efforts to envisage future enhancements of the language,
          implement tools, compilers and run-time environments.
          The workshop will focus its attention on different aspects of
          OpenMP. On the one side, the focus is on experiences from
          application developers in the use of the language and
          performance of real applications. On the other side, experiences
          in the implementation of compilers, runtime systems and tools
          supporting the development and parallelization of applications
          with OpenMP. The workshop also welcomes experiences in moving
          ideas and concepts from other programming models like HPF to
          OpenMP.
          The workshop is organized as part of the fourth International
          Symposium on High Performance Computing (ISHPC-IV).
          Kansai Science City, Japan
          POC: Mitsuhisa Sato  Workshop,General Chair

          Starting Date: May 25, 2002
          Ending Date:  May 28, 2002
          ISCA2002: International Symposium on Computer Architecture
          The International Symposium on Computer Architecture represents
          the premier technical forum on computer architecture. Both
          academic and industrial experts present their latest research
          findings in this rapidly changing field. Authors are invited to
          submit full papers on all aspects of computer architecture.
          Anchorage, AK
          Abstracts Deadline: 9 November 2001
          Papers Deadline: 16 November 2001
          POC: Yale Patt  General Chair

      June 2002

          Starting Date: June 3, 2002
          Ending Date:  June 5, 2002
          ESM'2002: 16th EUROPEAN SIMULATION MULTICONFERENCE
          The ESM'2002 is the international conference concerned with
          state of the art technology in modelling and simulation. For
          several years, ESM has proven to be an outstanding forum for
          researchers involved in building innovative simulation systems,
          simulation and modelling tools and applications on both the
          research and industrial front. The SCS European Simulation
          Multiconference features an outstanding technical program
          ranging from introductory tutorials to software reviews to
          state-of-the-art research and practice. The conference includes
          exhibits, business meetings for professional societies, and
          software user groups.
          Darmstadt, Germany
          Abstracts Deadline: 15 January 2002
          Papers Deadline: 30 April 2002
          POC: SCS Europe c/o Philippe Geril  Tel: +32.9.233.77.90 Fax:
          +32.9.223.49.41

          Starting Date: June 3, 2002
          Ending Date:  June 6, 2002
          Make IT Easy 2002
          This conference is an opportunity for all participating to see
          user engineering at work. Hear how the industry and businesses
          are innovating for simplicity by developing products and
          services that include the total user experience.
          San Jose, CA
          Papers Deadline: 16 April 2002

          Starting Date: June 4, 2002
          Ending Date:  June 7, 2002
          XML Web Services One Conference
          Targeted, focused classes, expertise level classes taught by XML
          and Web services gurus, rigorous & hands-on tutorials, and a
          packed exhibit floor makes XML Web Services One a learning
          experience unlike any other. Join thousands of developers and
          programmers from across the U.S. and around the world who have
          benefited from attending SIGS/101 Conferences.
          Conference sessions are organized into 10 tracks. The 90 minute,
          3 and 6 hour sessions are designed to give intense, abbreviated
          instruction in their subject area. Follow one track throughout
          the conference for the most in-depth learning, or pick and
          choose among the tracks.
          San Jose, CA
          POC: General Information

          Starting Date: June 11, 2002
          Ending Date:  June 15, 2002
          HT02: 2002 Hypertext Conference
          Hypertext 2002 welcomes discussions from designers and users of
          hypermedia applications and works in academia, business,
          entertainment, and industry. Here attendees can discuss all
          aspects of hypermedia, ranging from navigational aids, time, and
          infrastructures to digital libraries, interactive literature,
          virtual and augmented reality environments, gaming,
          human-computer interaction, software engineering,
          computer-supported collaborative work, and, of course, the World
          Wide Web.
          Formats for presentation include papers, panels and technical
          briefings, short papers and posters, demonstrations, exhibits,
          courses, workshops, and a doctoral consortium.
          College Park, MD
          PowerPoint verison of the Call
          Papers Deadline: 10 January 2002
          POC: Robert B. Allen  Conference Chair

          Starting Date: June 17, 2002
          Ending Date:  June 19, 2002
          HPCS 2002: The 16th Annual International Symposium on High
          Performance Computing Systems and Applications
          The symposium covers all aspects of high performance computing,
          both applied and theoretical, viewed from four perspectives:
          1.Parallel Architectures and Networking
          2.Software Systems
          3.Parallel Algorithms
          4.Applications
          Moncton, -NB, Canada
          Papers Deadline: 14 December 2001
          POC: Computer Science Department, HPCS2002  Tel: (506) 858-4335
          Fax: (506) 858-4541

          Starting Date: June 17, 2002
          Ending Date:  June 19, 2002
          PLDI2002: Programming Language Design and Implementation
          PLDI is a forum where researchers, developers, educators, and
          practitioners can exchange information on the latest practical
          and experimental work in the design and implementation of
          programming languages. The PLDI conference seeks original
          research papers that focus on practical issues in the design,
          development, implementation and use of programming languages.
          Emphasis is placed on novel language designs, innovative and
          creative approaches to compile-time and run-time technology, and
          results from experimental studies of actualimplementations.
          Berlin, Germany
          Papers Deadline: 16 November 2001
          POC: Frank Mueller  Local Chair (USA)

      July 2002

          Starting Date: July 9, 2002
          Ending Date:  July 13, 2002
          GECCO-2002: Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference
          A recombination of the Seventh Annual Genetic Programming
          Conference (GP-2002) and the International Conference on Genetic
          Algorithms (ICGA-2002) will continue the tradition of presenting
          the latest high-quality results in the growing field of genetic
          and evolutionary computation.
          New York City, NY
          Papers Deadline: 28 January 2002
          POC: Erick Cantu-Paz  Conference Chair

          Starting Date: July 14, 2002
          Ending Date:  July 18, 2002
          SCI2002: The Sixth World Multiconference on Systemics,
          Cybernetics and Informatics
          As a research Corpus Callosum, with the objetive of
          communicating analytically with synthetically oriented
          researchers and innovators, SCI conferences have been bringing
          together university professors and corporate managers, academic
          and professional experts, scientist and engineers, theoreticians
          and practitioners, all over the world to discuss themes of the
          conference and to participate with original ideas or
          innovations, knowledge or experience, theories or methodologies,
          in the areas of Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics (SCI).
          These three areas (SCI) are being increasingly related to each
          other and to almost every scientific discipline and human
          activity. Their common inter- and trans-disciplinary nature
          characterizes and communicates them, generating strong relations
          among them and with other disciplines.
          They interpenetrate each other integrating a whole that is
          permeating human thinking and practice. This phenomenon induced
          SCI Organization Committees to structure the event as a
          multidiscipline, while maintaining open the possibility of
          attending conference from other areas or disciplines. This
          systemic approach simulates cross-pollinate different
          scientific/technological areas, inspiring scholars, generating
          analogies and conducting to innovations. This, after all, is one
          of the very basic principles of the systems movement and a
          fundamental aim in cybernetics.
          Orlando, FL
          Papers Deadline: 19 December 2001

      August 2002

          Starting Date: August 7, 2002
          Ending Date:  August 8, 2002
          ISDA' 2002: Second International Workshop on Intelligent Systems
          Design and Applications
          Intelligent Systems Design and Applications (ISDA 2002) is an
          International Workshop that brings together international Soft
          Computing /Artificial Intelligence researchers, developers,
          practitioners, and users. The aim of ISDA 2002 is to serve as a
          forum to present current and future research work as well as to
          exchange ideas in this field.
          ISDA 2002 invites authors to submit their original and
          unpublished work that demonstrate current research in all areas
          of Soft Computing and Computational Intelligence including
          design of artificial neural networks, fuzzy systems,
          evolutionary algorithms, hybrid systems, agents, and their
          applications in science, technology, business and commerce.
          Atlanta, GA
          Papers Deadline: 28 February 2002
          POC: Ajith Abraham  Organizing Chair, Phone: +61 3 990 26778,
          Fax: +61 3 990 26879

          Starting Date: August 18, 2002
          Ending Date:  August 21, 2002
          ICPP-2002: 2002 International Conference on Parallel Processing
          The conference provides a forum for engineers and scientists in
          academia, industry and government to present their latest
          research findings in any aspects of parallel and distributed
          computing. Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:
          * Architecture
          * Programming Methodologies and Tools
          * Compilers and Languages
          * Networking and Protocols
          * OS and Resource Management
          * Internet Computing
          * Parallel/Distributed Algorithms
          * Wireless and Mobile Computing
          * Network-Based Computing
          * Web and Multimedia
          Vancouver, -BC, Canada
          Papers Deadline: 31 January 2002
          POC: Tarek S. Abdelrahman  Tel: +1-416-978-4690 Fax:
          +1-416-971-2326

          Starting Date: August 21, 2002
          Ending Date:  August 23, 2002
          PATAT 2002: Practice And Theory of Automated Timetabling
          This is the fourth in a series of conferences that serve as a
          forum for an international community of researchers,
          practitioners and vendors on all aspects of computer-aided
          timetable generation.
          Gent, Belgium
          Abstracts Deadline: 25 January 2002
          Papers Deadline: 25 January 2002
          POC: Prof E.K.Burke   Co-chair

          Starting Date: August 25, 2002
          Ending Date:  August 28, 2002
          forUSE2002: First International Conference on Usage-Centered
          Design
          Usage-centered design is coming of age as a proven, scaleable,
          and flexible approach for designing world-class user interfaces.
          Interest in this and related systematic techniques for user
          interface design has been growing rapidly around the world.
          forUSE 2002 will be the first conference of its kind devoted
          exclusively to usage-centered, task-driven, and
          performance-centered design for software and web-based
          applications. The conference will feature keynote and invited
          presentations by leading figures in usability and user interface
          design along with a full complement of tutorials and short
          presentations.
          The emphasis throughout the conference will be on practical
          application and real-world experiences. We are particularly
          interested in reports by practicing designers and developers
          describing actual project experiences and lessons learned but
          will also consider research reports and conceptual papers that
          emphasize application in the real world. Presentations should
          address or be related to one or more of the core topics of the
          conference.
          Portsmouth, NH

          Starting Date: August 25, 2002
          Ending Date:  August 30, 2002
          IFIP World Computer Congress 2002
          The Information Technology Conference of 2002!
          Stream 1 Foundations of Information Technology in the Era of
          Network and Mobile Computing (TCS 2002)
          Stream 2 Software Architecture
          Stream 3 Tele-learning
          Stream 4 Communication Systems: The State of the Art
          Stream 5 Information Systems: The E-Business Challenge
          Stream 6 Human Choice and Computers: Issues of Choice and
          Quality of Life in the Information Society
          Stream 7 Distributed and Parallel Embedded Systems (DIPES2002)
          Stream 8 Intelligent Information Processing (IIP-2002)
          Stream 9 Usability: Gaining a Competitive Edge: the current
          state of usability research and practice, contributions that
          discuss usability in terms of industry and practice as well as
          research advances
          Montreal, -PQ, Canada
          Papers Deadline: 3 December 2001

      September 2002

          Starting Date: September 8, 2002
          Ending Date:  September 11, 2002
          ECCE-11: Cognition, Culture and Design Eleventh European
          Conference on Cognitive Ergonomics
          The ECCE series of conferences has been organised biannually
          since 1982, thereby making it the oldest conference series of
          its kind internationally. ECCE brings together researchers in
          the domain of cognitive ergonomics, which aims at combining
          cognitive engineering and technical information processing
          system developments together to improve the design of joint
          interactive systems.
          The main theme of ECCE-11 is Cognition, Culture and Design.
          Contributions that explore cognitive and cultural aspects of
          design activity and technology use are encouraged. Submissions
          can address theoretical, empirical or methodological aspects of
          this theme, and can take the form of, e.g., papers, posters and
          panels.
          Catania, Italy
          Abstracts Deadline: 10 February 2002
          Papers Deadline: 9 June 2002
          POC: Massimo Felici  Telephone: +44 - 131 - 6505899 Fax: +44 -
          131 - 6677209

          Starting Date: September 10, 2002
          Ending Date:  September 13, 2002
          SAFECOMP'2002: The 21st International Conference on Computer
          Safety, Reliability and Security
          SAFECOMP focuses on safety-critical computer applications and is
          a platform for knowledge and technology transfer between
          academia, industry, and research institutions. SAFECOMP reviews
          the state of the art on all aspects of safety-critical systems
          and dependable computing. SAFECOMP emphasizes the interaction
          among disciplines thanks to the variety of its audience.
          Catania, Italy
          POC: SAFECOMP Info

      October 2002

          Starting Date: October 3, 2002
          Ending Date:  October 4, 2002
          IDEAS: Interagency Disability Educational Awareness Showcase
          2002
          The 15th annual Interagency Disability Educational Awareness
          Showcase (IDEAS) Conference features workshops, discussions, and
          exhibits highlighting methods to increase accessibility to
          information and technology for people with disabilities.
          Washington, DC
          POC: IDEAS  Phone: 703-488-6155 ext.208

          Starting Date: October 9, 2002
          Ending Date:  October 12, 2002
          GHC2002: Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing 2002
          The Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing 2002
          conference is a technical conference that consists of keynote
          speakers, technical papers, panels, workshops, technical
          posters, invited talks, and Technology Information Forums by
          successful researchers in the area of computing. The speakers
          are leaders in their respective fields, representing industrial,
          academic, and government communities.
          The theme of the fourth Grace Hopper Celebration is Ubiquity, as
          it applies to the ubiquity of women's impact on the field of
          computing, to the ubiquitous impact that computer technology is
          having on daily lives, and to computer technologies' impact
          across geographical and other physical boundaries.
          Vancouver, -BC, Canada
          Abstracts Deadline: 1 November 2001
          Papers Deadline: 1 November 2001
          POC: GHC2002

          Starting Date: October 9, 2002
          Ending Date:  October 12, 2002
          Space Ops 2002
          SpaceOps is a spacecraft operations-oriented international
          association consisting of representatives from most of the
          space-faring nations. It was founded in 1990 to foster
          continuous technical interchange on all aspects of space mission
          operations and ground data systems, and to promote and maintain
          an international community of space operations experts. This
          forum for discussing state-of-the-art operations principles,
          methods, and tools is held on a biennial basis at varying
          locations.
          Sponsored by NASA's Office of Space Flight, this forum will
          discuss state-of-the-art operations principles, methods, and
          tools and provide an excellent opportunity to foster continuous
          technical interchange on all aspects of space mission
          operations, including such areas as robotics, human, Earth
          orbiting, and deep space aspects of space operations.
          This bi-annual international conference will feature more than
          5000 square feet of exhibits showcasing the latest in space
          operations technology. It's a perfect opportunity to explore and
          present new ideas, approaches and concepts related to today's
          Space Operations from a global perspective.
          Space Ops 2002 is pleased to be able to coincide with the World
          Space Congress 2002 conference being held at the George R. Brown
          Convention Center, Houston, on October 9 - 19, 2002. Hosted by
          the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA),
          the World Space Congress 2002 is a joint gathering of the
          International Astronautical Federation (IAF) and the Committee
          on Space Research (COSPAR), under the auspices of the National
          Academy of Sciences (NAS). Represented by thousands of members
          of the international space community, the Congress will host a
          variety of representative from government, industry and academia
          who will focus on space science, research, engineering,
          technology, economics, business and policy to foster continued
          investment in space-based applications and business expansion.
          Space Ops 2002 will be fully integrated with The World Space
          Congress but will also function autonomously to further its
          focus on world space operations.
          Houston, TX
          Call for Papers
          Abstracts Deadline: 1 March 2002
          Papers Deadline: 15 July 2002

          Starting Date: October 10, 2002
          Ending Date:  October 19, 2002
          WSC2002: World Space Congress 2002 - The New Face of Space
          It's the face of industry and commerce, where space has become a
          resource and venue for doing business. It's the face of science,
          from water on Mars to new solar systems to parallel universes.
          It's the face of technology, from the International Space
          Station to lower risk launches and lightweight satellites. It's
          the face of a new space community and its unprecedented
          achievements. Only once in a decade, this community meets. And
          history is made.
          Houston, TX
          Call for Papers

          Starting Date: October 13, 2002
          Ending Date:  October 16, 2002
          ADASS XII: 12th Annual Astronomical Data Analysis Software &
          Systems Conference
          The Astronomical Data Analysis Software and Systems (ADASS)
          conference is held each year at a different hosting astronomical
          institution. The conference provides a forum for scientists and
          programmers concerned with algorithms, software and software
          systems employed in the reduction, analysis, and dissemination
          of astronomical data. An important element of the program is to
          foster communication between developers and users with a range
          of expertise in the production and use of software and systems.
          The program consists of invited talks, contributed oral and
          display papers, tutorials, user group meetings and special
          interest group meetings (called BOFs).
          Baltimore, MD
          POC: Todd Boroson  Deputy Director of the National Optical
          Astronomy Observatory.

      December 2002

          Starting Date: December 4, 2002
          Ending Date:  December 6, 2002
          SEW-27: 27th NASA Software Engineering Workshop
          The NASA Software Engineering Workshop (SEW) is sponsored by the
          NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC) Software Engineering
          Laboratory (SEL). Software practitioners from around the world
          attend this forum to share experiences and exchange ideas on the
          measurement, use, and evaluation of software methods, models,
          and tools.
          Greenbelt, MD
          Abstracts Deadline: TBD (August 2002?)
          POC: Mike Hinchey  Phone: 301-286-9057

          Starting Date: December 9, 2002
          Ending Date:  December 11, 2002
          OSDI'02: Fifth Symposium on Operating Systems Design and
          Implementation
          The fifth OSDI seeks to present innovative, exciting work in the
          systems area. OSDI brings together professionals from academic
          and industrial backgrounds in what has become a premier forum
          for discussing the design, implementation, and implications of
          systems software. The OSDI Symposium emphasizes both innovative
          research and quantified experience. OSDI takes a broad view of
          what the systems area encompasses and solicits contributions
          from all fields of systems practice: operating systems,
          networking, storage, distributed systems, parallel systems,
          mobile systems, embedded systems, the influence of hardware
          developments on systems and vice-versa, etc. We particularly
          encourage contributions containing highly original ideas or
          groundbreaking results that push the systems frontier.
          Boston, MA
          Papers Deadline: 17 May 2002
          POC: USENIX Conferences

                                List by Month

   List by Title List by Location

   rounded corner Click Here to goto TOP of page TOP    Home    SiteMap
   rounded corner
           Curator
     NASA Official
                  Larry Hull
                  Joe Hennessy
                              Security Statement
                              Privacy Statement
