http://www.src.wa.gov/news/westhalepr120601.htm

                                  [2h_media.jpg]

             Senate Republicans finish job and business climate study,
                     plan to unveil economic stimulus package



   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   December 6, 2001

                                                   FOR INTERVIEWS CONTACT:
                                            Sen. James West (360) 786-7610
                                              Sen. Pat Hale (360) 786-7614

      OLYMPIA…Following more than a dozen meetings with business owners
      around the state, Senate Republicans will introduce a package of
      reforms next session that aims to improve Washington’s business climate
      and help people get back to work.
       “Our goal is to improve Washington’s economy and create more jobs,”
      said Senate Republican Leader James West, who serves Spokane’s 6^th
      District. “We are in a recession. In fact, we have the highest
      unemployment rate in the nation. Thousands of workers at Boeing and
      other businesses have been laid off. Families are hurting. We need to
      find ways to turn our economy around.”

      Senate Republican Caucus Chair Pat Hale of Kennewick said improving the
      state’s business climate is key to improving Washington’s economy and
      helping people get back to work.
      “It’s clear that a good economy benefits everyone,” said Hale. “The
      booming high-tech industry of the last several years created a whole
      group of young workers who have never experienced a job without health
      care benefits or stock options.  Workers were able to pick and choose
      in an “employee’s market” where businesses had to compete just to fill
      open positions.  When businesses are successful, they can pass added
      benefits onto their employees and their families.  When times are
      tough, we’re left with lay-offs and a tightening job market that
      impacts everyone.”
      West and Hale said several issues surfaced during the meetings with
      businesspeople.

      “Several of these issues relate to state government agencies and their
      negative attitude toward businesses,” said Hale. “There is a widespread
      feeling among business owners that most agency employees view them as
      an enemy.”

      One Seattle man said, “Agencies act as if they’re at war with us.”
      Another developer from Arlington said, “You just can’t win.” A major
      Puget Sound businessman said, “Arrogance is a problem.  They need to
      realize that we don’t have to be here.”
      West said this anti-business attitude is something that can be
      corrected by Gov. Gary Locke.

      “Simply with the stroke of his pen, our governor has the power to order
      state agencies to change how they treat and regulate businesses. For a
      lot of our problems with the business climate, we don’t need a broad
      legislative package. We just need an attitude adjustment. The governor
      is the one who can make that happen,” said West.

      West, a member of the state Competitiveness Council appointed by Gov.
      Locke, said he hopes the Senate Republicans’ job and economic stimulus
      package will complement the findings of the Competitiveness Council.

                                     -- 30 --

       For further information contact Janelle Guthrie at (360) 786-7516 or
                              guthrie_ja@leg.wa.gov ,
           or  Brian Zylstra at (360) 786-7399 or zylstra_br@leg.wa.gov



   [leg._building.jpg] About Your Senator [bd12538_.jpg] Issues In Focus
   [microphone2.jpg] Media Center/Breaking News

                           Return to SRC Home Page
   Thank you for your interest in the Washington State Senate Republican
   Caucus.
   If you have questions, you may contact the caucus office at:
    PO Box 40462, Olympia, WA 98504-0462, (360) 786-7517
   or e-mail: Republican Caucus for further assistance.
   10/08/01
