http://www.senate.gov/~foreign/minority/press_template.cfm?rands_id=179297

      Main |  Committee Info |  Hearings |  Press |  Links |  Majority
                                  Website

   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   DATE: October 25, 2001                          CONTACT: Lester Munson
                                       PHONE: 202-224-6797

                     Helms Statement for Powell Hearing

   MR. HELMS. Mr. Secretary, all of us appreciate you coming to meet with
    us this afternoon, especially in light of your heavy schedule. You're
         doing a fine job under the most difficult of circumstances.

      In the six weeks since the terrorist attacks of September 11, the
    President, and his national security teamwith your leadership on the
    diplomatic fronthave succeeded in building a significant coalition in
                         the war against terrorism.

    The President was on the mark when he declared that the United States
   must root out all terrorists, and those who support them, wherever they
   may be foundnot just terrorists in Afghanistan, but in Iraq, Syria, the
                  West Bank, and a great many other places.

      The President, and you yourself, have emphasized that we must not
    sacrifice our long-term interests for the sake of coalition building.
     Broadening our relationship with the Iranians before they renounce
    their support for terrorist organizations, or turning a blind eye to
     China being one of the world's leading suppliers of weapons of mass
   destruction to those rogue states located in the Middle East, would be
                           the wrong thing to do.

    Furthermore, we must resist even the urge to "modify" the principled
    position of the United States regarding Chechnya in order to maintain
   Russian support for U.S. operations in Central Asia; or the temptation
      to gut important U.S. non-proliferation laws in an effort to buy
                  Pakistani, Indian, or Chinese assistance.

    To do so would only hasten new threats to our security interests, and
    risk future attacks inflicting far greater harm, and instilling much
                    more fear, than can ever be imagined.

   The American people, bless them, have shown their strong support for a
     long-term campaign, now in progress, to rid the world of terrorism
           before terrorists acquire weapons of mass destruction.

    The recent Anthrax attacks have demonstrated that we must do whatever
     it takes, with or without the approval of other nations, to defend
                    America and the American way of life.

   Those of us who have followed your hard work have the utmost confidence
    in you, Mr. Secretary. Your handling of this crisis as America's top
    diplomat has not only reassured the American public, it has instilled
        confidence in, and earned praise from, our friends overseas.

                                     ###
      Main |  Committee Info |  Hearings |  Press |  Links |  Majority
                                  Website
