http://snfactory.lbl.gov/eso.science_case.ps

   ESO Participation in the Nearby Supernova Factory 1 Overview The Nearby
   Supernova Factory (SNfactory) is a project to discover and obtain
   detailed lightcurve and spectral observations for over 300 nearby
   supernovae during the period 2002-- 2006. This project has been
   initiated by scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Lab (LBNL) in the
   United States; IN2P3, Observatories Lyon, and INPL in France; Stockholm
   University in Sweden; and Centro Multidisciplinar de Astrofisica at the
   Instituto Superior Tecnico in Portugal. The SNfactory will concentrate
   on Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia), the type which have recently been used
   to determine that the expansion of the universe is accelerating. Type
   II supernovae (SNe II) will also be developed as more reliable distance
   indicators. Several aspects of the SNfactory set it apart from other
   supernova projects. Foremost among these is that supernovae will be
   discovered using a blind wide-area CCD-based survey; other nearby
   supernova projects target known galaxies but there is now evidence that
   this approach misses an important subset of supernovae. In addition,
   the SNfactory will coordinate discovery and follow-up observations,
   eliminating the delays and spotty early lightcurve coverage which
   typically results from follow-up of supernovae listed in the IAU
   Circulars. It is expected that with the SNfactory detailed follow-up of
   supernova candidates can begin within as little as 12 hrs of the
   discovery observations. Finally, SNfactory follow-up observations will
   use an integral field unit spectrograph, data from which can be used to
   construct both detailed flux-calibrated spectra and broadband images.
   The regular photometric spectral time series for nearby supernovae the
   SNfactory will generate will revolutionize the study of supernovae.
   This dataset will also eliminate several limitations (bandpass
   mismatch, wavelength-dependent slit losses, etc.) of all other
   currently available instrumentation used to study supernovae. 2 Goals
   The primary goal of the SNfactory is to determine those properties of
   SNe Ia affecting their use for cosmology. The most critical of these
   will be the search for deviations or extra parameters not accounted for
   by the lightcurve width -- brightness relations currently used to
   standardize SNe Ia for use as cosmological distance indicators. If such
   deviations are found, it is expected that exclusion criteria or
   improved standardization methods based on lightcurve shapes and/or
   spectral features will be found to ameliorate the effect of deviant SNe
   Ia on measurements of the cosmological parameters. Well-observed nearby
   SNe Ia, especially in host galaxies spanning a wide range in
   metallicity and star-formation histories, are essential for testing for
   possible deviations. It is possible that the discovery of new
   luminosity-related parameters will actually allow the standardization
   of SNe Ia to be further improved, making them even better tools for
   cosmology. A number of sample-size and technical issues related to the
   use of SNe Ia as distance indicators for cosmology will also be
   addressed by the SNfactory. These include: ffl securing the low-z
   portion of the SNe Ia Hubble diagram (Fig 1) -- which serves as the
   zero-point for high-z cosmological measurements -- using this large,
   less biased, sample of nearby SNe Ia. ffl obtain U BV RI lightcurves
   beginning well before maximum -- data currently available for only a
   handful of nearby SNe Ia, and needed to fit the lightcurves of high-z
   SNe Ia for which there is now have extensive data prior to maximum (see
   Fig 2). ffl test and refine the lightcurve width vs. brightness
   relation used to standardize SNe Ia luminosities, (to , 0:1 mag after
   extinction correction), for which a wide range of lightcurve widths is
   essential. ffl construct a U -band template lightcurve and a U -band
   lightcurve width vs. brightness relation to allow U and U -B
   lightcurves to be used to correct z ? 0:75 SNe Ia observed with, e.g.,
   HST. ffl obtain spectral coverage with lightcurve phase, and thereby
   determine accurate K-corrections as a function of lightcurve width and
   time (see Fig 2). ffl determine intrinsic (unreddened) SNe Ia
   color-curves needed to establish the correct color zeropoints for
   host-galaxy extinction corrections. ffl test for the existence of
   abnormal host-galaxy extinction laws. The uniquely large sample of
   nearby SNe Ia expected from the SNfactory will allow these standardized
   candles to be studied at a level of detail heretofore impossible.
   Indeed, there are enough plausible luminosity-related parameters that a
   large sample intentionally covering a wide range of such parameters (or
   their surrogates) is essential (and can only be carried out with the
   large discovery overcapacity possible with the SNfactory). This level
   of scrutiny is demanded by the remarkable evidence for an accelerating
   universe and by plans to refine and expand such measurements using much
   larger (thousands) samples of high-redshift SNe Ia. The resulting
   SNfactory dataset on SNe Ia will also allow detailed exploration of SNe
   Ia properties never before possible, which will almost certainly lead
   to a better understanding of SN physics and place strong constraints on
   progenitor models. It will enable us to determine: ffl the intrinsic
   luminosity function of SNe Ia ffl new relations between lightcurve
   shapes, spectral diagnostics (such as UV continuum slope, Si5180/Si6150
   line ratios), etc., and luminosity. ffl SNe properties in different
   host galaxy environments (as a surrogate for progenitor age, mass, and
   metallicity). ffl the rates of SNe of all types (presently uncertain by
   at least 2x for nearby galaxies), including rates as a function of host
   galaxy properties. 2 3 Components of the Nearby SNfactory 3.1 Discovery
   The SNfactory will search for supernovae using CCD images obtained by
   JPL's Near Earth Asteroid Team (NEAT). A proof-of-concept search
   conducted using two nights of NEAT data found 4 confirmed supernovae.
   NEAT has since expanded it's operation to include a 1.2-m telescope (at
   the 10,000 ft summit of Haleakala, Hawaii) working 18 nights per month.
   NEAT has agreed to examine supernova search fields three times during
   each month, giving the SNfactory the potential to find many supernova
   shortly after explosion. (Risetime -- the time from explosion to peak
   brightness -- is considered one possible parameter that could affect
   peak luminosity). In addition, since this search covers large portions
   of the sky irrespective of known galaxies, it will be rid of the biases
   to which pointed searches are subject due to their reliance on existing
   galaxy catalogs. NEAT will soon quadruple it's capacity, with a second
   1.2-m telescope operating at Mt. Palomar with a large CCD camera, so we
   expect to discovery several supernovae per night. As with the
   proof-of-concept search, NEAT data will be transferred in near realtime
   via high-speed Internet connection to Lawrence Berkeley Nation Lab
   (LBNL, where 1 Tb of NEAT data is already archived). Once there, the
   images will be processed and searched using automated software
   developed by the Supernova Cosmology Project (SCP) and further refined
   by the SNfactory. Candidate supernovae will be screened interactively
   and assigned a preliminary follow-up priority. An important aspect of
   the SNfactory is that the selection of supernova candidates will be
   quantitative and traceable, something current surveys completely lack
   and which makes calculations of supernova rates and peculiarity
   fractions extremely difficult. 3.2 Follow-up -- Lightcurves and
   Spectroscopy The most revolutionary aspect of the SNfactory -- aside
   from the huge numbers of supernovae it will find -- is the coordinated
   follow-up using instrumention tailored to the study of supernovae.
   Candidate supernovae found in the NEAT images must first be screened
   with spectroscopy to confirm the supernovae and reveal its type (Ia,
   II, Ib, Ic) and redshift. The SNfactory will not only discover
   supernovae closer to explosion that other surveys do, with a 12 hr
   turn-around it will also begin the follow-up much much sooner.
   Typically candidate supernovae are confirmed with imaging on subsequent
   nights, then reported to the IAU Circulars, and then observed
   spectroscopically with regular - but infrequently -- scheduled time or
   director's discretionary time (requiring a proposal for each supernova
   and the availability of the right instrumentation). This process can
   easily stretch on for a week or more after discovery. The SNfactory
   plans to have at least two telescopes with optimal instrumentation
   available every night, waiting to be fed by the stream of supernova
   candidates coming from the two NEAT sites. Indeed, realizing this
   capability is the main reason the SNfactory is seeking significant
   regular access to an ESO telescope. Traditionally supernovae have been
   followed with BV RI photometry, and spectra beyond the 3 initial
   confirmation spectrum are rare. The SNfactory will change all that.
   Using a integral field unit on a two-channel (blue & red) optical
   spectrograph, the SNfactory's SuperNova Integral Field Sspectrograph
   (SNIFS; under construction at Observatorie Lyon) equipped with LBNL's
   red-enhanced CCD's, will allow spectroscopy of supernovae at all
   epochs. Because these spectra will be spectrophotometric, U BV RIZ
   photometry can be synthesized from these spectra, without the
   uncertainties due to photometric color terms and K-corrections (the
   latter usually based on non-spectrophotometric spectra). SNIFS will
   retain one advantage of the traditional approach, which allows
   surrounding field stars to be used for flux scaling when conditions are
   non-photometric, by also having an imager which integrates on the field
   immediately surrounding each supernova and having the exact same
   exposure as the integral field unit. 4 More about SNIFS The
   opto-mechanical layout of SNIFS is shown in Fig. X. The operation of
   SNIFS is intended to be fully automated. An observer/technician is
   needed to prepare the telescope for observing, point the telescope to
   targets designated by the SNfactory, close the telescope, and possibly
   ensure that the SNIFS dewars are supplied with LN2. SNIFS is intended
   to be capable of focusing the telescope, recognizing star fields near
   requested targets using it's own imager, adjusting the telescope
   pointing to place the desired target on the integral field unit, and
   acquire and guide on a suitable star. It will then execute an observing
   sequence for the spectrograph and imager, read out the date, determine
   the quality of the data, and take it's own calibration (afternoon dome
   flats may also be required on occasion). Moving parts on SNIFS are
   limited to a shutter, filter wheel, and pick-off mirror (feeding the
   spectrograph). The electronic components consist of detector readout
   (for 4 CCD's), a shutter, filter wheel, calibration lamps, and
   status-monitoring. Software interface to the telescope control system
   to execute pointing and focus adjustments, and to obtain information
   for the data headers and control software will be necessary. An
   additional software interface to the Internet is required to transfer
   the imager and spectrograph data (at most 64 Mbytes every 10 minutes,
   and that only during the fraction of time SNIFS is operating) to Europe
   and the United States so that the observing program can be revised as
   needed based on the new observations. The SNIFS spectrograph
   continuously covers a 600\Theta 600field of view with a sampling of
   0.400. It has blue and red channels, which are operated simultaneously,
   generating spectra on 2k\Theta 4k LBNL red-enhanced CCD's at
   resolutions of 4.5*A and 6.6*A, respectively. The imager consists of a
   2k\Theta 4k LBNL red-enhanced CCD with 15_mpixels, which views the sky
   surrounding the spectrograph pick-off mirror. The built-in
   guider/focuser consists of a second identical CCD. (If designed for a
   telescope which provided guiding, the guider channel on SNIFS2 could be
   modified to serve as an imager.) The imager and guider are used
   directly, without re-imaging optics. 4 5 A Role for ESO: The SNfactory
   currently has plans to place the first SNIFS on the University of
   Hawaii 2.2-m telescope on Mauna Kea. It will be permanently mounted,
   and continuously available for use of up to 20% of the night. SNIFS is
   under construction at Observatorie Lyon, and is expected to begin
   operations on Mauna Kea in early 2002. We are now seeking a significant
   fraction of time on a second telescope at a comparably good site to be
   the home of SNIFS2 (which could be available as early as mid-2002). The
   ESO 2.2-m could be such a telescope if significant time can be obtained
   and arrangements can be made to permanently mount a second SNIFS. The
   ESO NTT or 3.6-m are other possible options. The membership of the
   SNfactory is predominantly European, with more than 10 scientists (and
   several students) from ESO nations such as France, Sweden, and
   Portugal. This, it is only fitting that an approach be made to ESO for
   its assistance in realizing the full potential of the SNfactory. In an
   age where 8-m telescopes like the VLT dominate, smaller telescopes like
   the ESO 2.2-m must seek roles for themselves that capitalize on their
   ability to be dedicated to large and unique projects. We seek
   suggestions from ESO on how it can contribute to a program -- the
   SNfactory -- which will revolutionize the study of supernovae. Below we
   have listed some possible arrangements for SNIFS at La Silla, in order
   of preference: 1. SNIFS permanently mounted on the ESO 2.2-m and used
   for the SNfactory at least 20% of the time. 2. SNIFS mounted at a
   Nasymth port on the NTT (possibly as a replacement for SuSI2), and
   available at least 10% of the time for the SNfactory. 3. SNIFS mounted
   on the ESO 2.2-m for at least 2 nights each week, during which time it
   would be used mainly for the SNfactory. 5 \Omega M No Big Bang 1 2 fl0
   1 2 3 fl expands forever \Omega \Lambda Flatfl\Lambda = 0fl Universe-1
   0 1 2 3 2 3 close do pen 90% 68% 99%95% recollapses eventually flat
   Calan/Tololofl(Hamuy et al, fl A.J. 1996) SupernovaflCosmologyfl
   Project effe ctiv e m B (0.5,0.5) (0, 0)( 1, 0 ) (1, 0) (1.5,-0.5) (2,
   0) (\Omega M,\Omega \Lambda ) = fl ( 0, 1 ) Fla t \Lambda = 0 redshift
   z 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 0.02 0.05 0.1 0.2 0.5 1.00.02 0.05 0.1 0.2 0.5
   1.0 Figure 1: Cosmological constraints from Type Ia supernovae: Hubble
   diagram and resulting constraints on \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda from
   42 high-z Type Ia supernovae from Perlmutter et al 1998b. At left, the
   68%, 90%, and 99% confidence regions for an unconstrained fit for
   \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda are shown. At right, the low-z SNe Ia are
   those from Hamuy et al 1996a which are suitable for analysis using the
   same methods as used for the high-z SNe Ia. 6 -20 0 20 40 60-17 -18 -19
   -20 -20 0 20 40 60-17 -18 -19 -20 V Band as measured light-curve
   timescalefl"stretch-factor" corrected days MV - 5 log (h/6 5) days MV -
   5 log (h/6 5) Calan/Tololo SNe Ia SpectraflAn Example: SN1994an at z =
   0.378fl +9 days past max observer framefl= +6 days rest frame fl days
   flrest frame fl Wavelength in SN Rest Frame Scaled Flux +flConstants
   Keck 10-m TelescopeSN1994an at z = 0.378 "Nearby" Type Iafl SN1992A -5
   -1 +3 +6 +7 +11 +16 +17 +24 +28 Figure 2: Photometric and Spectral Time
   Evolution of Type Ia supernovae: At left, V -band lightcurves for
   nearby SNe Ia from Hamuy et al 1996b. The upper panel shows lightcurves
   for individual SNe Ia, with absolute magnitudes derived assuming pure
   Hubble flow and Ho = 65 km/s/Mpc. Template lightcurves from Leibundgut
   et al 1991 have been fit to the lightcurve for each SN. Note that the
   brighter SNe have lightcurves which are broader and decline more
   slowly. Also notice that very few of these SNe have data well before
   maximum light. The lower panel at left shows the superposition of these
   data after using a linear correction for stretch, S, and scaling the
   time axis (with maximum at t = 0) by the same stretch-factor. We have
   found that the lightcurves for a given filter for most SNe Ia can be
   represented by a single stretched template. We have also found that
   this stretch factor is linearly proportional to the intrinsic
   luminosity (in magnitudes). At right is the evolution of the spectrum
   of a Type Ia supernova as the explosion ages. This was constructed
   using spectra from different SNe Ia obtained at different epochs. The
   shaded regions highlight portions of the spectra which are seen to
   evolve with time. Some of these can also be used as luminosity
   indicators. 7 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1100 1200Wavelength
   (nm)0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70 0.80 0.90 1.00 MODEL
   PARAMETERS:Quartz thickness = 0.106 um ITO thickness = 0.056
   umPolysilicon thickness = 0.020 um T = 143.1 K = -130.0 C U B V R I Z
   CTIO T2k Model (red end, no abs)flModel (blue, drop-deadfl abs in
   poly)flModel (blue, reflectivity)fl Lick QE measurementsfl (photon
   transfer methodfl gain calibration)fl(1- Refl), Lick reflectivityfl
   measurements Qu ant um effi cien cy ( ) o r 1- refl ect ivit y ( ) fl
   Figure 3: Measured QE of LBNL red-enhanced CCD: The black solid circles
   show the measured QE as a function of wavelength for a LBNL 2k\Theta 2k
   CCD. The red crosses show 1\Gamma reflectance as a function of
   wavelength for the same device. Overlaid on these measurements are
   model calculations derived from the known physical parameters of the
   CCD's. Also overlaid as a thick gray line is the QE for a good imaging
   CCD from Cerro Tololo Interamerican Observatory. The standard U BV RIZ
   bandpasses are also shown for reference. Note that this CCD has
   enhanced QE in at longer wavelengths than conventional thinned CCD's
   due to it's greater thickness (300_m, which is fully deleted). The
   antireflection coating is also optimized for red wavelengths. These
   devices are free of fringing, which plagues other CCD's at red
   wavelengths. The difference between 1\Gamma reflectance and the QE
   indicates losses in the polysilicon gettering layer. An anti-reflection
   coating optimized for blue wavelengths would improve the blue
   performance slightly. Alternatively, SNIFS may use an EEV CCD for the
   blue channel. 8
