http://www.gis.ca.gov


      Welcome to California California Home To see today's date, please
                                               enable JavaScript....

   Welcome to California, picture montage consisting of California grapes,
   cable car, PDA, San Diego skyline, Hollywood sign, and Monterey Cypress
                                    Tree




   CaSIL Home
   Statewide Data Index
   SPOT Data
   DRG Data
   CMCC
   Disclaimer
   Partners & Links
   News & Events
   Other Information
   [spacer.gif] Related Links

   California GIS Council
   CERES
   USGS
   FGDC
   CERES Metadata Catalog
   [flexpower.gif]

   [state_topo.png]
   State of California
   CaSIL
   The California Spatial Information Library



                        __________ search
                        (*)  My CA   ( )   This Site

   CaSIL Home

   Welcome to the California Geographic Information Systems (GIS) web
   portal.  The California Mapping Coordinating Committee (CMCC) is in the
   process of developing a series of GIS-related web pages to provide
   information on State government GIS activities, access to statewide GIS
   data, and links to the larger California GIS community.  This website
   and the Spatial Information Library are works in progress.

   Starting July 1, 2001 some of Californias physical and cultural
   geospatial information, formerly distributed by the Teale Data Center,
   is being distributed to the public by the California Mapping
   Coordinating Committee through servers at the California Environmental
   Resources Evaluation System (CERES) in the Resources Agency and
   National Aeronautical and Space Agency (NASA) Ames Research Center.

   In addition, CERES and CMCC are working with ESRI to develop an
   Internet Map Server, linked to the Geography Network to provide another
   browsing and distribution mechanism to the public.   We hope to have
   this server running in the next several weeks.

   Note:  CMCC will be working to update and improve some of the spatial
   data in the library and provide access or links to more up-to-date data
   served by others over the next several years as need and funding
   permit.  Caution should be exercised when using some of the layers of
   data as they are somewhat outdated; particularly those datasets that
   change rapidly (i.e., schools, health facilities, etc.).  We strongly
   recommend that users refer to the metadata or information about GIS
   datasets for appropriate uses of the data, source information, scale
   information, and general quality.

   CMCC would like to acknowledge the support of the Executive Sponsors in
   the Resources Agency, Department of Information Technology, California
   Environmental Protection Agency, Governors Office of Planning and
   Research, and Health and Human Services Agency.

                             Back to Top of Page

   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Privacy Policy E-mail
                                the Webmaster
