http://acts.lerc.nasa.gov

   The script on this page is used for aesthetic purposes only.
   Functionality is not affected if javascript is off or disabled.

    Image of ACTS orbiting earth About ACTS NASA Glenn Research Center's
       Space Communications Program NASA Glenn Research Center's Space
                           Communications Program
                                 Technology
                                News & Events
                                Tech Library
                                Related Links


   Wecome to ACTS Contact Us Search the Site Site Map


   Welcome!
   Hot Topics:
     * ACTS University Consortium: Interest has been expressed to continue
       ACTS operations through a university-based consortium. Information
       about the consortium can be found at its web site Ohio Consortium
       for Advanced Communications Technology
     * ACTS Extension Workshop Information: ACTS to extend operations to
       education and research.
     * ACTS Experiments Operations concluded
     * Current and up to date ACTS Retirement Information
     * Ephemeris Data (The Satellite's Location)
     * Ka Band Utilization Conference information
       [iic-logos.jpg]

   Image of ACTS

   The Advanced Communications Technology Satellite (ACTS), a significant
   activity of the Space Communications Program, provided for the
   development and flight test of high-risk, advanced communications
   satellite technology. Using multiple spot beam antennas and advanced
   on-board switching and processing systems, ACTS pioneered new
   initiatives in communications satellite technology. The NASA Glenn
   Research Center is responsible for the development, management, and
   operation of ACTS in a long legacy of experimental communications
   satellites. Overall ACTS program management resides within the Space
   Operations Management Office (SOMO) located at NASA Johnson Space
   Center in Houston, Texas.




   About ACTS | Technology | News & Events | Library | Related Links

     Responsible NASA Official: Robert Bauer
     Space Communications Program
     NASA Glenn Research Center, Cleveland, Ohio
     NASA Privacy Statement | NASA Web Accessibility Statement
     Site constructed by Zin Technologies, Inc.
