http://santorum.senate.gov

   Banner: American Flag Banner: United States Senate: Rick Santorum of
   Pennsylvania

   rickphoto2.jpg (94921 bytes)

       WEEKLY COLUMN

   Americans Are Blessed With An Opportunity On my many visits to
   Pennsylvania since September 11, I have witnessed the renewal of
   America's spirit. Like each of us, I will never forget hearing the
   personal stories of the volunteers who aided in rescue efforts, and of
   the countless men and women who shared their tears for the victims who
   would never again come home. The giving of time, the donation of blood,
   and the constant charitable work which has been done throughout
   Pennsylvania reminds us all, good can come of the greatest evil.
   More... Click Here for Senator Santorum's Weekly Columns

                              [usflagmini.jpg]
       NEWS AND INFORMATION IN RESPONSE TO SEPTEMBER 11, 2001 ATTACKS

                              [usflagmini.jpg]
    ADVISORY ON CONTACTING SENATOR SANTORUM IN LIGHT OF USMAIL SITUATION

                              [usflagmini.jpg]
                    SEND A HOLIDAY MESSAGE TO OUR TROOPS

   Header: Santorum Greeting
     * Video Greeting
     * Audio Only Greeting

   Graphic: Email Symbol
     * Email Senator Santorum

   Header: Office Addresses
     * Washington Office
     * Pennsylvania Offices

   Header: Constituent Services
     * Help for Pennsylvanians
     * Access Online Services
     * Flags
     * Academy Nominations
     * Internships
     * Visiting Washington, DC
     * Birthday & Anniversary Greetings
     * Grant Information

   Header: About Senator Santorum
     * Senate Republican Conference
     * Biography
     * Committee Assignments
     * Information for Students

   Header: Federal Links
     * Senator Arlen Specter
     * Pennsylvania U.S. House Delegation
     * Other Legislative Links
     * The White House
     * Other Executive Branch Links
     * Other Links

   Header: Pennsylvania Links
     * Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
     * Governor Mark Schweiker
     * Pennsylvania House of Representatives
     * Senate of Pennsylvania
     * Other PA Links

   Header: Internet Rumors
   Header: Press
   Header: FAQs
   Header: Photo Gallery
   Header: Audio Clips
   Header: Site Index
   Header: About This Site
   link to Social Security section

   Our most popular and successful social program is at a crossroads, and
   if we want to save and strengthen it for future generations, we have
   some important decisions to make. More...
   link to Agriculture section

   Fighting for Pennsylvania's agriculture community as a member of the
   Senate Leadership. More...
   link to renewal alliance section

   I am working in the Senate to expand opportunities to renew America's
   families and distressed communities. More...
   link to Education section

   Ensuring that families and local communities have the support and
   resources to develop the potential of all children through quality
   education is one of my top legislative priorities. More..
   link to Veterans section

   I believe Congress has a special obligation to our nation's veterans.
   Service to our country has entitled veterans to unique benefits that
   are available to no other single group of Americans. More..
   link to Health Care section

   Supporting legislation which promotes quality, affordable, and
   accessible health care in all communities is one of my most important
   legislative priorities More...
   link to Computers & Technology section

   From telecommuting to email and Internet commerce, technology is
   changing the way Pennsylvanians live and work. I believe that we need
   to encourage the spirit of American innovation that has made the United
   States the world's technology leader. More...
   link to Defense section

   As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and as Chairman on
   the Subcommittee on AirLand Forces, I am working to ensure that our men
   and women have the support, training, and equipment they need to
   function effectively when called upon. More...
   link to Public Safety section

   Ensuring the safety of its citizens is any society's most basic
   responsibility. As your Senator, I work to ensure that federal
   involvement encourages effective law enforcement and public safety in
   partnership with state and local officials. More...

                     This site was last updated: 1/15/02
