http://av-info.faa.gov


          Av-info.faa.gov    spacer gif    Air Operators    spacer gif
      Aircraft Info    spacer gif    Airman Info    spacer gif    Forms
      spacer gif    Links    spacer gif    Data Download    spacer gif

     Flight Standards Service - Aviation Information Website
                                                             av-info.faa.gov


    Air Operators  spacer  Airman Information
   Airline Certification Information
   Enhanced Airplane Security Program
   Utilization Reports

    Aircraft Information
   Airworthiness Directives (AD)
   Amateur Built Aircraft
   Export Airworthiness Approval Procedures
   Parts Manufacturer Approvals Listing (PMAs)
   Regulatory and Guidance Library (RGL)
   Special Airworthiness Information Bulletins (SAIB)
   Supplemental Type Certificates (STC)
   Technical Standard Orders (TSO)
   Type Certificate Data Sheets (TCDS)
   •   •   •   •   •   •   •
   Aircraft Fleet Age Information
   General Aviation Airworthiness Alerts
   Repair Station
   • Service Difficulty Reporting
   SDR Main Menu
   Joint Aircraft System/Component Code Table
   Service Difficulty Reports Summaries

    Aviation Data
   • Data Download (via FTP)
   AID • Air Agency • Air Operators
   Mechanic Schools • Pilot Schools
   Repair Stations • SDR
   Training Centers
   • Data Search
   FAA Enforcements
   FAA Incidents

    Links
   AFS Telephone & Contact Directory
   Aviation Safety Reporting System
   Bureau of Transportation Statistics
   National Transportation Safety Board
   NTSB Accidents
   Pilot Records Improvement Act
   • Airman Certification
   Advisory Circulars • Test Item Banks
   Testing Centers • Supplements • Test Guides
   Practical Test Standards
   Test Statistics • Training Handbooks
   Other Test Info
   • Airman Education
   Maintenance Schools • Pilot Schools
   School Graduation Lists • School Norms Reports

    Designee Information
   Applications • Materials • Training
   FAQ • Background/History • News Topics
   • Designee Seminars
   DPE Schedule  •  DME/DPRE - Schedule
   Airworthiness Standardization Seminar
   Mfg & Maint. Initial Standardization Seminar
   Manufacturing Standardization Seminar
   • Other Designee Information
   DPE List  • DPE Application  •  FDR-1D Kit
   Designee Updates  •  National Examiner Board
   Info & Handbook Bulletins  •  FSDO Locator
   FAQ 14 CFR, Part 61 & 141

    Forms
   • Application for Airman Certification/Rating
   Pilot Application
   Mechanic & Parachute Rigger Application
   Flight Engineer Application
   • Other Forms
   Airworthiness Certificate Application
   Mechanic's Application for Inspection Authorization
   Application for Pilot School Certificate
   Complete Forms List
   FUNCTION OF AV-INFO

   This website is intended to provide the public with easily accessible
   Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) safety related information
   pertaining to Airlines and Aircraft. The site also provides service
   information concerning Aviation related Schools, Safety related Forms,
   and FAA offices.

   Maneuverability within the website is accomplished by using the
   category menu at the top of the page. Many of the selections will take
   you to existing FAA Web pages.

   This web site uses temporary session cookies to help supply information
   to the search engines so that user information requests can be
   satisfied. No session cookies will be kept after users end their
   browser session. Our session cookies have no impact on security or
   privacy.

   The session cookies on this site are used as session variables, that
   are automatically removed from the user's computer at the end of their
   browser session. They are used for:
    1. connectivity to SQL servers
    2. passing values to and from SQL stored procedures (data retrieval)
    3. passing values from one web page to another web page
    4. timeout values
    5. display characteristics
    6. logic flow within a web page
    7. error handling

   For additional information about the use of Cookies on our site, please
   visit (http://www.faa.gov/issuesinfo.htm).


   ** WARNING/DISCLAIMER ON USE OF GOVERNMENT SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION **

   Website Version 3.0 - Published Tuesday, 15 May 2001 (
   http://av-info.faa.gov/ )

   Published online by Aviation Flight Standards (AFS) 600
   A Division of the United States Federal Aviation Administration

   For more information about this website please contact us.
