http://www.usfa.fema.gov/research/

   USFA SEAL Blank Image Emergency Medical Services Banner Image


                       Research & Applied Technology
            Navigation Menu Link       NIST/USFA Projects
            Navigation Menu Link       CPSC/USFA Projects
            Navigation Menu Link   Wellness-Fitness Initiative
            Navigation Menu Link        RFSI Partnership
            Navigation Menu Link        HFSC Partnership
            Navigation Menu Link     Safe Vehicle Operations
            Navigation Menu Link Disaster Resistant Universities
            Navigation Menu Link      Fire Research Agenda
            Navigation Menu Link             Reports
            Navigation Menu Link        Research Feedback

                             Link to fire.gov


RESEARCH AND APPLIED TECHNOLOGY

   New USFA Advocates Arc Fault Circuit Interrupter Technology

   USFA works with its Federal partners and other public and private
   groups to promote and improve fire prevention and life safety through
   research and evaluation of applied technology to meet its operational
   objectives. Currently, a number of research and applied technology
   initiatives are underway in fire detection, suppression and
   notification systems, and fire and emergency responder health and
   safety. These initiatives include:
     * USFA partners with the National Institute of Standards and
       Technology (NIST), in performing a multitude of research projects.
     * In Partnership with the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC),
       USFA has several research and special studies that are currently
       underway.
     * USFA is working with the International Association of Fire Chiefs
       (IAFC) and the International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF) on
       research regarding the Expansion and Quantification of
       Effectiveness of the Fire Service Joint Labor Management Wellness -
       Fitness Initiative.
     * USFA is a key partner with the Residential Fire Safety Institute
       (RFSI) that is a consortium of public and private sector
       organizations, including the National Association of State Fire
       Marshals (NAFSM), whose mission is to mitigate the impact of fire
       on residential occupancies through the advocacy of built in
       protection including smoke alarms and automatic sprinklers and
       through effective public education.
     * USFA and the Home Fire Sprinkler Coalition (HFSC) share the
       objective to promote better knowledge, understanding, and use of
       detection and automatic fire sprinkler technology in residential
       dwellings.
     * Other research projects currently being performed by USFA include
       Safe Vehicle Operations of Fire Tankers and the Disaster Resistant
       Universities Initiative.

   To develop research ideas USFA often solicits information from its
   constituents. In this light, USFA and NIST conducted/supported a series
   of workshops to obtain input from both our fire service stakeholders
   and non-fire service constituents. Copies of the reports from these
   workshops are available free of charge. USFA was supported in creating
   its Fire Research Agenda from the information developed into
   proceedings from these workshops.

   USFAs customers - fire service, non-fire service allied professionals,
   and citizens are an important source of information and ideas for
   potential research initiatives. If you have any comments, ideas, or
   input related to research to make America more fire safe, or would like
   further information regarding any of USFAs research programs please
   contact us.

   NIST and USFA have teamed up to produce an on-line newsletter at
   fire.gov that has easy to read articles that describes ongoing research
   activities around the world, including contact information and links to
   specific researchers and organizations involved in the research.

   Numerous reports have been developed from USFA research efforts in the
   past. They are available free of charge from the USFA Publications
   Center.

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: January 29, 2002

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
