http://www.eeoc.gov/federal/md110/chapter8.html

   The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
     __________________________________________________________________

                                   CHAPTER 8

COMPLAINTS OF CLASS DISCRIMINATION IN THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT

    I. INTRODUCTION
       Section 1614.204 of Title 29 C.F.R. provides for processing class
       complaints of discrimination. A class is defined as a group of
       employees, former employees, or applicants who are alleged to have
       been adversely affected by an agency personnel policy or practice
       which discriminates against the group on the basis of their common
       race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or disability. A
       class complaint is a written complaint of discrimination filed on
       behalf of the class by the agent of the class, alleging that the
       class is so numerous that a consolidated complaint by the members
       of the class is impractical, that there are questions of fact
       common to the class, that the claims of the agent of the class are
       typical of the claims of the class, and that the agent of the class
       and, if represented, the representative, will fairly and adequately
       protect the interests of the class.
       The regulatory requirements for class complaints at § 1614.204
       provide a structure different from that for individual complaints.
       For class complaints, there is a four-stage process. The first
       stage is the establishment of a class complaint. At this stage, the
       class agent is required to seek counseling from an agency EEO
       Counselor. The second stage is a determination from a Commission
       Administrative Judge, subject to agency final action, as to whether
       to certify the complaint as a class action. The third stage,
       assuming that the complaint has been certified as a class action,
       involves a recommended decision from an Administrative Judge on the
       merits of the class complaint, subject to final agency action in
       the form of a final decision. The fourth stage, where there has
       been a finding of class-based discrimination, is the determination
       of the claims for relief of the individual class members.
   II. PRE-CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES
         A. Pre-Complaint Processing
            Section 1614.204(b) provides that, as with an individual
            complainant, an employee who seeks to represent a class of
            employees must seek counseling and undergo pre-complaint
            processing in accordance with § 1614.105 and Chapter 2 of this
            Management Directive, with one exception, discussed below.
            Section 1614.105 requires that an employee must seek
            counseling within forty-five (45) days of the discriminatory
            event. The agency shall extend the 45-day time limit when the
            individual shows that s/he was not notified of the time limits
            and was not aware of them, that s/he did not know and
            reasonably should not have known that the discriminatory
            practice or personnel action occurred, that despite due
            diligence s/he was prevented by circumstances beyond his/her
            control from contacting the EEO Counselor within the time
            limits, or for other reasons considered sufficient by the
            agency or the Commission. See § 1614.105(a)(2). The time
            period may be waived by the agency and is subject to estoppel
            and equitable tolling. See § 1614.604(c). If the complaint is
            not resolved on the thirtieth (30^th) day following initial
            EEO counseling, the EEO Counselor must give the agent written
            notice that s/he has fifteen (15) days from receipt of the
            notice to file a formal complaint. § 1614.204(c)(2).
            The counseling period may be extended up to an additional
            sixty (60) days if, prior to the expiration of the 30-day
            period, the aggrieved person agrees with the agency in writing
            to postpone the final interview.
            The one exception to the mandatory counseling prerequisite
            allows a complainant to move for class certification at any
            reasonable point in the process when it becomes apparent that
            there are class implications to the claim raised in an
            individual complaint. § 1614.204(b).^(1) The Commission
            intends that "reasonable point in the process" be interpreted
            to allow a complainant to seek class certification when s/he
            knows or suspects that the complaint has class implications,
            i.e., the complaint potentially involves questions of law or
            fact common to a class and the complainant's claim is typical
            of that of the class. Undue delay will lead to dismissal of
            the class complaint. (See Section III.A.4 below.) If a
            complainant moves for class certification after completing the
            pre-complaint process contained in § 1614.105, no additional
            counseling is required. Instead, the agency or the
            Administrative Judge, as appropriate, must advise the
            complainant of his/her rights and responsibilities as the
            class agent.
         B. Filing and Presentation of the Class Complaint
            As with an individual complaint, a class complaint must be
            filed with the agency that allegedly discriminated against the
            putative class. § 1614.106. A class complaint must be signed
            by the class agent (the complainant) or a class representative
            and must identify the policy or practice adversely affecting
            the class as well as the specific action or policy affecting
            the class agent. § 1614.204(c)(1).
            Within thirty (30) days of an agency's receipt of a class
            complaint, including the agency's receipt of the class
            complaint during its investigation of the aggrieved person's
            individual complaint, an agency must designate an agency
            representative and forward the complaint, along with a copy of
            the EEO Counselor's report and any other relevant information
            about the complaint, to the Commission. § 1614.204(d)(1). When
            any complaint is filed, an agency must take care to preserve
            any and all evidence with potential relevance to the class
            complaint. This is a continuing obligation that begins as soon
            as the complaint is filed, even before the class has been
            certified, and continues throughout the processing of the
            complaint.
            The agency must forward the class complaint to the EEOC
            district office having jurisdiction of the agency facility
            where the complaint arose. Appendix J to this Management
            Directive is a list of the addresses of the EEOC district and
            field offices and their geographic jurisdictions.
            Should the agency's organizational component where the
            complaint arose not fall within one of the geographical
            jurisdictions shown, the agency should contact the following
            office for guidance:

     Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
     Office of Federal Operations
     Federal Sector Programs
     Complaint Adjudication Division
     P.O. Box 19848
     Washington, D.C.20036
     Telephone: (202) 663-4519
     TDD: (202) 663-4593
   III. CERTIFICATION OR DISMISSAL - § 1614.204(d)
       The Commission will assign an Administrative Judge (or in some
       limited circumstances involving national security, a complaints
       examiner from another agency) to issue a decision on certification
       of the complaint. § 1614.204(d).
         A. Class Complaint Criteria
            A class complaint will be dismissed if:
              1. The complaint does not meet all of the prerequisites of a
                 class complaint under § 1614.204(a)(2) (i.e., numerosity,
                 commonality, typicality, and adequacy of representation);
              2. The claims lack specificity and detail pursuant to §
                 1614.204(d)(4);
              3. The complaint meets any of the criteria for dismissal
                 pursuant to § 1614.107(a) "Dismissals of Complaints"; or
              4. The complainant unduly delayed in moving for class
                 certification. See § 1614.204(b).
         B. Developing the Evidence for Purpose of Certification
            Determination
            The Administrative Judge may direct the complainant or agency
            to submit additional information relevant to the issue of
            certification. See § 1614.204(d)(1).
         C. Individual Complaints Filed on Bases and Issues Identical to
            Class Complaints
            An individual complaint that is filed before or after the
            class complaint is filed and that comes within the definition
            of the class claim(s), will not be dismissed but will be
            subsumed within the class complaint. If the class complaint is
            dismissed at the certification stage, the individual complaint
            may still proceed, unless the same or another basis for
            dismissal applies. If the class proceeds to a hearing, the
            individual claim may be presented by the class representative
            at the liability stage of the process, or it may be presented
            at the remedy stage by the complainant. If the class complaint
            is dismissed at the certification stage, the class members may
            not proceed unless they have timely filed individual
            complaints.
            The agency shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of a
            decision dismissing a class complaint for failure to meet the
            criteria of a class complaint, issue the acknowledgment of
            receipt of an individual complaint as required by
            § 1614.106(d) and process in accordance with subpart A, each
            individual complaint that was subsumed into the class
            complaint.
   IV. CERTIFICATION DECISION - § 1614.204(d)(7)

    A. Administrative Judge Issues Decision on Certification
       The Administrative Judge shall issue a decision on whether to
       certify or dismiss a class complaint. When appropriate, the
       Administrative Judge may decide to certify a class conditionally,
       for a reasonable period of time, until a complainant finds
       representation. For example, if the record on a class complaint
       satisfies the numerosity, typicality, and commonality requirements
       for class certification, the Administrative Judge may
       "conditionally" certify the class for a reasonable period of time
       so that the class agent may secure adequate representation.
       Administrative Judges should refer complainants to any attorney
       referral systems that may be operating in EEOC district offices or
       other attorney referral services for assistance in obtaining
       adequate legal representation.
       Even after a class is certified, the Administrative Judge remains
       free to modify the certification order or dismiss the class
       complaint in light of subsequent developments. See General
       Telephone Co. v. Falcon, 457 U.S. 147, 160 (1982). The
       Administrative Judge has the authority, in response to a party's
       motion or on his/her own motion, to redefine a class, subdivide it,
       or dismiss it if the Administrative Judge determines that there is
       no longer a basis for the complaint to proceed as a class
       complaint. Hines v. Department of the Air Force, EEOC Request No.
       05940917 (January 29, 1996).
    B. Transmittal of Decision
       The Administrative Judge shall transmit his/her decision to accept
       or dismiss a class complaint to the agency and the agent. The
       agency shall take final action by issuing a final order within
       forty (40) days of receipt of the Administrative Judge's decision.
       The final order shall notify the agent whether the agency will
       implement the decision of the Administrative Judge. If the final
       order does not fully implement the decision of the Administrative
       Judge, the agency shall simultaneously appeal the Administrative
       Judge's decision in accordance with § 1614.403 and append a copy of
       the appeal to the final order. The Commission has prepared a
       separate form that agencies may use to file appeals with the
       Commission. A copy of that form is attached as Appendix O.
       If the decision is to accept (certify) the class complaint,
       Commission regulations require the agency to notify all class
       members. 29 C.F.R. § 1614.204(e)(1). The agency must use all
       reasonable means to notify all class members of the acceptance of
       the complaint within 15 days of receipt of the Administrative
       Judge's decision or within a reasonable time frame specified by the
       Administrative Judge. (See Section V, below.)
       An Administrative Judge's decision to dismiss the class complaint
       at the certification stage will inform the agent that the complaint
       is being filed on that date as an individual complaint and will be
       processed under subpart A, that the complaint is also dismissed as
       an individual complaint in accordance with § 1614.107(a), or, in
       the case of a complaint forwarded to the Administrative Judge
       during the agency's investigation of the complaint, that the
       complaint is being returned to the agency and will continue from
       the point that the agency's investigation ended with the referral
       of the complaint to the Administrative Judge.
    C. Right to Appeal the Administrative Judge's Decision
       The Administrative Judge's decision whether to accept or dismiss
       the class complaint is subject to final agency action. The
       Administrative Judge shall transit his/her decision to the agency,
       with a copy to the complainant and the complainant's
       representative, if any. The agency has forty (40) days from receipt
       of the Administrative Judge's decision to take final action by
       issuing a final order informing the complainant as to whether the
       agency will fully implement the decision. If the agency informs the
       complainant that it does not intend to fully implement the
       decision, the agency must simultaneously file an appeal with the
       Commission and append a copy of the appeal to the final order
       served on the complainant. The agency may use the form appended
       hereto as Appendix O to file its appeal with the Commission. The
       complainant will have thirty (30) days from receipt of the final
       order to file an appeal and the agency shall provide the
       complainant with a copy of EEOC Form 573, Notice of Appeal/Petition
       (Appendix K).

     NOTIFICATION - § 1614.204(e)
    A. Timing and Method of the Notice
       Within fifteen (15) calendar days of the agency's receipt of the
       Administrative Judge's decision certifying a class complaint or
       such time frame specified by the Administrative Judge, the agency
       shall use reasonable means, such as hand delivery, mailing to the
       last known address, or distribution (such as through inter-office
       mail or e-mail) to notify all class members of the certification of
       the class complaint. An agency may file a motion with the
       Administrative Judge seeking a stay in the distribution of the
       notice for the purpose of determining whether it will file an
       appeal of the Administrative Judge's order.
       The "reasonable means" used by agencies for notification should be
       those most likely to provide an opportunity for class members to
       know about the complaint. Conspicuous posting on bulletin boards to
       which all potential class members have easy access may constitute
       adequate notice in some situations.
    B. Content of the Notice
       The notice must contain:
         1. the name of the agency or organizational segment, its
            location, and the date of acceptance of the complaint;
         2. the definition of the class and a description of the issues
            accepted;
         3. 3. an explanation of the binding nature of the decision or
            resolution of the complaint on class members;
         4. 4. the name, address, and telephone number of the class
            representative; and
         5. 5. a copy of the Administrative Judge's decision certifying
            the class.
    C. Individuals May Not Opt Out
       The class members may not "opt out" of the defined class; however,
       they do not have to participate in the class or file a claim for
       individual relief. All class members will have the opportunity to
       object to any proposed settlement and to file claims for individual
       relief if discrimination is found.
    D. Settlement Notice
       All class members must receive notice of any settlement or decision
       on the class complaint whether or not they participated in the
       action. See Section VII of this Chapter.

     DEVELOPING THE EVIDENCE - § 1614.204(f)
    A. The Process of Developing the Evidence
       The Administrative Judge will advise both parties that they will
       have at least sixty (60) days to develop evidence. §
       1614.204(f)(1). They can do this in the same manner as in
       individual cases, i.e., through interrogatories, depositions,
       requests for admissions, stipulations, or production of documents.
       The parties may object to production on the grounds that the
       information sought is irrelevant, overly burdensome, repetitious,
       or privileged. The Administrative Judge has the authority to impose
       sanctions on a party if that party fails to comply without good
       cause with rulings on requests for information, documents, or
       admissions. An adverse inference may be appropriate where the
       information is solely in the control of that party. Similarly, if a
       party fails to provide an adequate explanation for the failure to
       respond fully and in a timely manner to a request, the
       Administrative Judge may impose sanctions. Adverse inferences are
       appropriate when the information is solely in the control of that
       party. These sanctions include, but are not limited to, the
       authority to:
         1. draw an adverse inference that the requested information would
            have reflected unfavorably on the party refusing to provide
            the requested information;
         2. consider the issues to which the requested information
            pertains to be established in favor of the opposing party;
         3. exclude other evidence offered by the party failing to produce
            the requested information, and/or;
         4. recommend that a decision be entered in favor of the opposing
            party.^(2)
    B. Use of Agency Facilities by Class Agent
       The class agent and his/her non-attorney representative should be
       permitted reasonable access to and/or use of agency facilities
       (copiers, telephones, word processors) for preparation of the case
       as long as there is no undue disruption of agency operations. The
       class agent and/or non-attorney representative may not use agency
       resources and facilities in the preparation of the class case
       without obtaining the prior approval of the designated agency
       official.

     RESOLUTION - § 1614.204(g)
    A. Resolution by the Parties
       The complaint may be resolved by agreement of the agency and the
       agent at any time pursuant to the notice and approval procedure
       contained in § 1614.204(g)(4).
    B. Notice of Proposed Resolution
       If a resolution is proposed, notice must be given to all class
       members in the same manner as the notification of certification of
       the class was given. The notice must include a copy of the proposed
       resolution, set out the relief, if any, that the agency will grant,
       and inform the class members that the resolution will bind all
       members of the class. The notice must also inform class members of
       the right to submit objections to the settlement. The notice
       further must inform the parties of the name and address of the
       Administrative Judge assigned to the complaint.
       The agency shall provide the Administrative Judge with a copy of
       the proposed resolution and the notice sent to the parties.
    C. Administrative Judge Shall Review Resolution
         1. The Administrative Judge shall review and issue a decision
            concerning the fairness, adequacy, and reasonableness of the
            proposed resolution. Withinthirty (30) days of the date of a
            class member's receipt of the notice of proposed resolution,
            the class member may file a petition with the Administrative
            Judge noting objections to the settlement if the petitioner
            (class member) believes that the settlement benefits only the
            class agent or is otherwise not fair, adequate, and reasonable
            to the class as a whole. The Administrative Judge will review
            the proposed resolution after the expiration of the 30-day
            period allowed for petitions and consider any petitions
            received. If the judge determines that the resolution is not
            fair, adequate, and reasonable, s/he will vacate the proposed
            resolution and may replace the class agent with the petitioner
            or other class member who is eligible to serve as class agent.
         2. An Administrative Judge's decision that a resolution is not
            fair, adequate, and reasonable vacates the agreement between
            the class agent and the agency. The decision must inform the
            class agent, the petitioner, class members, and the agency, of
            the right to appeal the decision to the Commission. The
            decision must include a copy of EEOC Form 573, Notice of
            Appeal/Petition (Appendix K). The agency may use the separate
            form at Appendix O for filing its appeal with the Commission.
         3. An Administrative Judge's decision that a resolution is fair,
            adequate, and reasonable binds all members of the class. The
            decision must inform the petitioner of the right to appeal the
            decision to the Commission. The decision must include a copy
            of EEOC Form 573, Notice of Appeal/Petition.

     HEARING - §§ 1614.204(h) and (i)
    A. Hearing Procedures
       Hearing procedures in class complaints are the same as those
       applied to hearings in individual complaints of discrimination and
       are set out at § 1614.109.
    B. Site of the Class Hearing
       The Administrative Judge assigned to hear the complaint will, upon
       expiration of the period allowed for preparation of the class case,
       set a date for a hearing and determine the site of the hearing.
       Within his/her discretion, the Administrative Judge is authorized
       to conduct the hearing in the EEOC district office, in an EEOC area
       or local office, at the agency's organizational component where the
       complaint arose, or at such other location as s/he may determine
       appropriate. In determining the hearing site, the Administrative
       Judge may consider factors such as the location of the parties; the
       location of EEOC district, area, and local offices; the number and
       location of witnesses; the location of records; travel distances
       for the Administrative Judge, the parties, and witnesses; travel
       costs; the availability of sources of transportation; and other
       factors as may be appropriate.
       Should an agency desire that a hearing be held at a location within
       the jurisdictional area of another EEOC district office, it must
       submit a request, in writing, to the EEOC office that determined
       the class certification issue. In its request, the agency must
       identify the location of the desired place of hearing and must set
       out, in detail, its reasons and justification for the requested
       change. The Administrative Judge will rule on the request only
       after the directors of the concerned EEOC district offices have
       conferred on the matter.
    C. Travel Expenses
       If the Administrative Judge sets a hearing site that is outside the
       local commuting area of the agency's organizational component where
       the complaint arose, the agency must bear all reasonable travel and
       per diem expenses of complainants, their authorized
       representatives, agency representatives, and all witnesses approved
       by the Administrative Judge, except that an agency does not have
       the authority to pay the travel expenses of complainant's witnesses
       who are not federal employees.
       The agency's obligation is limited to those costs which are legally
       payable in advance by the agency. See Decision of the Comptroller
       General, Matter of: Expenses of Outside Applicant/Complainant to
       Travel to Agency EEO Hearing, File: B-202845, 61 Comp. Gen. 654
       (1982); see also Decision of the Comptroller General, Matter of:
       John Booth - Travel Expenses of Witness - Agency Responsible, File:
       B-235845, 69 Comp. Gen. 310 (1990).
    D. Official Time for Agency Employees
       Any employee testifying at a hearing is entitled to official time
       for the time s/he spends testifying as well as a reasonable amount
       of time for travel to and from the hearing. The class agent and
       agent's representative, if employees of the agency where the
       complaint arose and was filed, are entitled to official time for
       actual time spent at the hearing and for a reasonable amount of
       time spent preparing for the hearing.
       An agency may permit its employees to use official time in
       preparing and presenting a class complaint which arose in another
       agency.

     ADMINISTRATIVE JUDGE'S RECOMMENDED DECISION

   The Administrative Judge shall transmit to the agency a report of
   findings and recommendations on the complaint, including a recommended
   decision, systemic relief for the class, and any individual relief,
   where appropriate, with regard to the personnel action or policy that
   gave rise to the complaint. The report of findings and recommendations
   shall be sent to the agency together with the entire record, including
   the transcript. The Administrative Judge shall also notify the class
   agent, in a separate communication, of the date on which the report of
   findings and recommendations was forwarded to the agency.
   § 1614.204(i)(1).

   If the Administrative Judge finds no class relief appropriate, s/he
   shall determine if any finding of individual discrimination is
   warranted and, if so, shall recommend appropriate relief. §
   1614.204(i)(2).

     AGENCY DECISION - § 1614.204(j) and (k)
    A. Action on Administrative Judge's Report of Findings and
       Recommendations
       Within sixty (60) days of receipt of the report of findings and
       recommendations issued by the Administrative Judge, the agency must
       issue a decision to accept, reject, or modify those findings and
       recommendations. If the agency does not issue the final decision
       within 60 days, the Administrative Judge's findings and
       recommendations will become the final decision of the agency.
       The agency must transmit its final decision to the agent within
       five days of the expiration of the 60-day period.
    B. Required Features of the Agency Final Decision
         1. The agency's final decision on a class complaint must be in
            writing; must be transmitted to the agent by certified mail,
            return receipt requested, and must include a copy of the
            report of findings and recommendations of the Administrative
            Judge. See § 1614.204(j)(2).
         2. Where the Administrative Judge addresses the merits of the
            complaint, the agency final decision also must address the
            merits. It must include a finding on the issue of
            discrimination, address the merits of the class agent's
            personal claim, and include the corrective action, if any,
            awarded to the class agent.^(3)
         3. A decision finding discrimination should include the dates of
            the agent's initial contact with the EEO Counselor and the
            date the agency eliminated the policy or practice on which
            there has been a finding of discrimination.
         4. The final agency decision shall inform the agent of the right
            to appeal or to file a civil action and of the applicable time
            limits.
    C. Binding Nature of Agency Decision
       The final agency decision finding of discrimination will be binding
       on all members of the class and on the agency. A finding of no
       discrimination is not binding on a class member's individual
       complaint. Class members may not "opt out" of the class action
       while it is pending.
    D. Notification of Agency Final Decision
       The agency shall notify class members and the class representative
       of the decision and relief awarded, if any, through the same media
       employed to give notice of the existence of the class complaint.
       The notice, where appropriate, shall include information concerning
       the rights of class members to seek individual relief and of the
       procedures to be followed. Notice shall be given by the agency
       within ten (10) days of the transmittal of its decision to the
       agent. The notice shall include the period for which the relief
       will be available and stating it in terms of precise calendar days,
       e.g., between 6/30/90 and 9/1/97.

     RELIEF FOR INDIVIDUAL CLASS MEMBERS - § 1614.204(l)
    A. Claims for Individual Relief by Class Members Where Discrimination
       is Found
       Where a finding of discrimination against a class has been made,
       there is a presumption of discrimination as to each member of the
       class. The agency has the burden of proving by clear and convincing
       evidence that a class member is not entitled to relief. See §
       1614.204(l)(3).
       Within thirty (30) days of receipt of notification of the final
       agency decision, a class member who believes that s/he is entitled
       to individual relief must file a written claim with the head of the
       agency, or with the agency's EEO Director.
       The claim must include a specific, detailed showing that:
         1. The claimant is a class member who was affected by the
            discriminatory policy or practice; and
         2. The discriminatory action occurred within the period of time
            for which the agency found class-wide discrimination in its
            decision.
       Where a finding of discrimination against a class has been made,
       there shall be a presumption of discrimination as to each member of
       the class. The agency must show by clear and convincing evidence
       that any class member is not entitled to relief.
    B. Timing of Agency Decision on Individual Claims for Relief
       Within ninety (90) calendar days of receiving an individual claim,
       the agency must issue a final decision on that claim. The agency's
       final decision must include a notice of the right to file an appeal
       or a civil action within the applicable time limits. The decision
       must include a copy of EEOC Form 573, Notice of Appeal/Petition
       (Appendix K).
    C. Oversight of Individual Claims for Relief
         1. Where an Administrative Judge finds that the agency
            discriminated against the class, the Administrative Judge
            should include in his/her order a provision that establishes a
            mechanism for review of individual claims pursuant to § 1614.
            204(l)(3). Under that section, a class member must file a
            claim with the agency within thirty (30) days of his/her
            receipt of notification from the agency of its final decision
            and the agency must issue a decision within ninety (90) days
            of its receipt of the claim. That section further provides
            that Administrative Judges retain jurisdiction over the
            complaint in order to resolve any disputed claims of class
            members and may hold hearings or otherwise supplement the
            record on a claim filed by a class member.
         2. To implement this section, an Administrative Judge's order
            should advise the agency to inform him/her in writing within
            sixty (60) days of the agency's receipt of a claim from a
            class member that it intends to dispute the class member's
            claim, and provide a copy of such notice to the class member.
            Once the agency informs the Administrative Judge and the class
            member of its intent to dispute the class member's claim, the
            Administrative Judge will issue an order tolling the 90-day
            period within which the agency is required to issue a decision
            on the class member's claim.
         3. The Administrative Judge's order will advise the agency to
            provide a statement in support of its decision to dispute the
            class member's claim and any supporting evidence within
            fifteen (15) days of the agency's receipt of the
            Administrative Judge's order, providing a copy of any such
            submission to the class member. The class member will have 15
            days from the date of service of the agency's submission to
            respond to the agency's submission and may file a statement
            and documents in support of his/her claim, providing a copy of
            any such submission to the agency. If service of the
            submission was by mail, the class member may add three days to
            the date that the response is due. The Administrative Judge
            has the discretion to enlarge the 15-day period at the written
            request of either party or on his/her own motion. If a party
            seeks an enlargement of the 15-day period, that party must
            provide a copy of its written request to the other party.
         4. The Administrative Judge thereafter may determine whether s/he
            needs additional information or should hold a hearing in order
            to further develop the record regarding the class member's
            claim. At the conclusion of fact finding, the Administrative
            Judge will issue a decision concerning the class member's
            claim and forward the decision to the class member and the
            agency. The decision will advise the agency that the 90-day
            period for issuing a final decision on the claim will resume
            upon its receipt of the Administrative Judge's decision. The
            agency must issue a final decision regarding the class
            member's claim within the 90-day period. If the agency does
            not issue the final decision within the 90-day period, the
            Administrative Judge's decision will become the final decision
            of the agency.
         5. A decision on a class member's claim must inform the class
            member of the right to appeal the decision to the Office of
            Federal Operations or to file a civil action and it must
            include EEOC Form 573, Notice of Appeal/Petition (Appendix K).
    D. Limits on the Duration of a Finding of Class-Wide Discrimination
       The agency or the Commission may find class-wide discrimination and
       order remedial action for any policy or practice in existence
       within forty-five (45) days of the class agent's initial contact
       with the EEO Counselor. Relief may be ordered for the time the
       policy or practice was in effect. Under the continuing violation
       theory, incidents occurring earlier than 45 days before contact
       with the EEO Counselor must also be remedied provided the initial
       contact with the EEO Counselor was timely and the earlier incidents
       were part of the same continuing policy or practice found to have
       been discriminatory. Where contact with the EEO Counselor is timely
       as to one of the events comprising the continuing violation, then
       the counseling contact is timely as to the entire violation. See
       § 1614.204(l)(3). This 45-day time period does not limit the
       two-year time period for which back pay can be recovered by a class
       member.
    E. Where Class-Wide Discrimination is Not Found
       The agency shall, within sixty (60) calendar days of issuance of
       the final decision, acknowledge receipt of an individual complaint
       as required in § 1614.106(d) and process in accordance with the
       provisions of subpart A, each individual complaint that was
       subsumed into the class complaint.
       If it is found that the class agent or any other member of the
       class is a victim of discrimination, the relief provisions of §
       1614.501 shall apply.

     REPRISAL

   Federal employees who are agents, claimants, representatives of agents
   or claimants, witnesses, or agency officials having responsibility for
   processing class complaints may file individual discrimination
   complaints if they believe they have been subjected to restraint,
   interference, coercion or reprisal because of their involvement in the
   presentation and/or processing of a class complaint. EEO counseling
   must precede the filing of such complaints.
     __________________________________________________________________

   1. The term "move" in this context means that the complainant must make
   his/her intention to process the complaint as a class action clear to
   the investigator if the complaint is still in the investigation phase
   of the process, to the Administrative Judge if the complaint is at the
   hearing phase of the process, or to the agency if the investigation has
   been completed and the complainant has not elected to proceed to a
   hearing. A complainant may make his/her intention clear through a
   letter, a formal motion, or any means that effectively informs the
   agency, investigator (if the matter is within the investigation phase
   of the process), or Administrative Judge of the complainant's intent to
   pursue a class action.

   2. The Administrative Judge's order to the parties should make clear
   what sanctions or other actions may be imposed for a failure to comply
   with the order within the time set forth therein. Where an order did
   not put a party on notice that it could be sanctioned for a
   noncompliance or did not put the party on notice of the type of
   sanction that the Administrative Judge now seeks to impose, the
   Administrative Judge must issue a notice to show cause to the party for
   an explanation why the sanction should not be imposed and provide an
   opportunity to cure the noncompliance before imposing the sanction.

   3. Section 1614.204(j)(5) provides: "The final decision of the agency
   shall require any relief authorized by law and determined to be
   necessary or desirable to resolve the issue of discrimination."
     __________________________________________________________________

   This page was last modified on November 8, 1999.

   Home Return to Home Page
