http://bidug.pnl.gov/references/Maclellan_letter.pdf

   Subject: Inspector Generals Exit Briefing covering the IG Draft Report
   on "In-Vitro Bioassay Services". Following private discussions with the
   IG audit team and the telephone conference exit briefing held January
   13, I would interpret Oak Ridge IG's recommendations as follows: * all
   internal dosimetry programs should use the Rocky Flats contracts with
   Quanterra and GEL for the four routine analyses covered (tritium and
   plutonium, americium, and uranium by alpha spectrometry) * other
   existing contracts (to be determined) should be amended to allow
   submission by any site for other needed isotopes. * On-site labs should
   capture all their costs (labor, materials, equipment, facilities) so an
   equitable comparison with commercial lab costs may be made. There were
   further discussions between DOE and ORIG after the telephone conference
   ended, but I have not heard any additional details or seen a final
   report from ORIG. However, it was clear that the ORIG wants a DOE-wide
   bioassay contract(s) with lower prices. Virgine Ideker, RFETS, was
   previously tasked by DOE-MA to head a team that would prepare an
   Addendum to the recently awarded ICPT National Agreements for
   Analytical Services. The addendum would incorporate a national
   specification for Bioassay Services. Once the review and approval
   process is completed it would be added for use as an addendum to the
   ICPT agreements referenced above. I believe it is imperative that the
   users of bioassay data are included on the team developing the contract
   requirements. Otherwise, we will all be forced to live with what is
   available. If you are willing to serve on this committee, please
   contact Virgene at Virgene.Ideker@rfets.gov or by phone at 303-966-3437
   (note: she will be on vacation through 1/28). Don't wait for the
   contract to become a reality to complain. Jay A. MacLellan, CHP
   Manager, Radiation Records/Bioassay Contract Technical Administrator
   Radiation and Health Technology Pacific Northwest National Laboratory
   Phone: 509-376-7247 Fax: 509-376-2906 Email: jay.a.maclellan@pnl.gov
