http://chems.alaska.gov/program_descriptions.htm


   Text Links List || Health Social Services >  Public Health >  Community
                      Health Emergency Medical Services
                                      .


 Juneau Office
410 Willoughby
   Room 109
  Box 110616
Juneau, Alaska
   99811-0616
(907) 465-3027
 465-4101 FAX

                                           logo graphic
                          Community Health and Emergency Medical Services

                                                                                        Anchorage Office
                                                                                        Anchorage, Alaska
                                                                                              99501
                                                                                         (907) 278-3456




                           CHEMS Program Descriptions

     Brief descriptions of the CHEMS programs and projects.  The name is a
     link that will take you to your chosen program.

                            Community Health Programs
       * Health Promotion-
         Community-Based Health Promotion Program
         The State of Alaska’s Community-Based Health Promotion Program is
         dedicated to improving the life and health of all Alaskans. Our job
         is to help communities, whether local, regional or statewide, to
         organize their efforts to address the public health interests. We
         provide support, technical assistance, resources and information on
         how to prevent disease and promote health.


       * AHELP-Alaska Health Education Library Project
         logo, AHELP
         The Alaska Health Education Library Project (AHELP) is an
         electronic clearing house of current promotion and health education
         resources that are specific to and available in Alaska.
         AHELP is a cooperative agreement between the Alaska Division of
         Public Health and the U.S Centers for Disease Control and
         Prevention.


       * Cardiovascular Health-
         logo, Take Heart Alaska
         Cardiovascular diseases (CVD), including heart disease and stroke,
         are the leading causes of death in the United States and Alaska.
         The good news is that CVD can be prevented or delayed through
         healthy lifestyles and preventive health services. The Alaska
         Division of Public Health is involved in a variety of efforts to
         promote cardiovascular health.

       * BRFSS-Behavioral Risk Factor Survey System-
         logo, BRFSS
         Alaska's Progress towards the Goals of Healthy People


       * USF-Universal Service Funds-
         graphic, telephone
         Congress created the Universal Service Fund through the
         Telecommunications Competition and Deregulation Act of 1996 to
         ensure that affordable, quality telecommunications services are
         available to all Americans. One of the requirements is that
         "public and non-profit rural health care providers have access to
         telecommunications services necessary for the provision of health
         care services at rates comparable to those paid for similar
         services in urban areas."


       * Injury Surveillance and Prevention Program-
         Alaska leads the nation in overall unintentional injuries and
         deaths from injuries. The injury prevention office within Emergency
         Medical Services is charged with coordinating the efforts of the
         coalition, increasing public awareness and actions in behalf of
         prevention, and encouraging interventions statewide in injury
         prevention and control.


       * Tobacco Prevention and Control-
         graphic, no smoking
         The Alaska Tobacco Prevention and Control Program, in cooperation
         with local communities, statewide partners, and national
         organizations, strives to reduce the overall mortality and
         morbidity caused by active tobacco use, passive exposure to
         tobacco, and the effects these two factors have in Alaska.


       * Alaskan Exposure-
         logo, National Health Service Corps
         Experience the challenges, rewards and cultural diversity that
         health care practice in underserved communities can offer by
         becoming a member of Alaska’s health care delivery team!
         Alaskan Exposure is a program that seeks to provide primary care
         health professions students with unique and rewarding placement
         experiences in rural and urban underserved communities. Teaming up
         with a primary care provider, students have the chance to
         experience primary care first hand.


       * Primary Care Office-
         logo, Alaska Primary Health Association Inc.
         The Alaska Primary Care Office (PCO) works with other organizations
         to help identify and locate resources for medically underserved
         communities and populations. The Alaska PCO also helps to find
         health care resources that fit what the community can and will
         support.


                       Emergency Medical Services Programs
       * Emergency Medical Services-
         logo, Alaska EMS


       * Emergency Medical Services for Children-
         logo, Alaska EMS for Children


       * Telemedicine-
         graphic, Telemedicine
         The telemedicine liaison activity within the Division of Public
         Health explores and documents potentials for and challenges of
         telehealth development and delivery in Alaska. Staff work with
         other agencies to help support a rational telehealth development
         and deployment strategy.


       * RHFP-Rural Hospital Flexibility Program-
         graphic, RHFP
         The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-33) established the
         Medicare Rural Hospital Flexibility Program, a national program
         designed to assist states and rural communities in improving access
         to essential health care services through the establishment of
         limited service hospitals and rural health networks.


       * Health Alert Network-
         graphic,satellite


       * Poison Control System

                                  [progra1.gif]



                    Emergency Medical Services  Programs

              Click HERE For Information on 9/11/2001 Tragedies


   EMS What's New                          EMS Contacts
   EMS Funding, Billing, and Reimbursement Training Info and Schedules
   Letters of Solicitation                 Discussion Forum
   EMS Downloads                           EMS for Children
   Certification Database                  Comfort One-DNR
   Out of State Applicants                 EMS AED
   EMS List Servers                        Alaska Council on EMS
   EMS Medical Directors                   EMS Data Collection
   Trauma Registry                         Technical Assistance Team
   Alaska EMS Symposia                     Links to Great EMS Sites
   Alaska EMS Awards                       AK EMS Directory
   Subscribe to RESPONSE: EMS Alaska       EMS Photo Gallery
   RESPONSE Newsletters                    On-Line Surveys
   Injury Prevention                       Poison Control
   Continuing Medical Education Guidelines Search CH EMS Web Site
   Alaska Health and Social Services       Alaska Public Health
   EMS Week                                Physician Medical Director Resources
   EMS Instructors


                                     TOP

                  Primary Care & Health Promotion Programs


   Cardiovascular Health   Community Based Health Promotion
   AHELP Alaska Health Education Library Project Tobacco Prevention and
   Control
   Alaskan Exposure Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance Survey
   Alaska Primary Care Office (PCO) Rural Hospital Flexibility Program
   Health Alert Network Telemedicine
   Contacts
   CHEMS home Search CH EMS

   Alaska Health Social Services Alaska Public Health
