http://www.bbs.ca.gov/Weblokup.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                      BBS Home Page
                      Sitemap
                      What's New!
                      Verify Licenses
                      Online Psychotherapy
                      About the Board
                      Board Meetings
                      Consumer Complaint Information
                      Licensing
                      Examinations
                      Licensee Information
                      Continuing Education
                      Forms & Publications
                      Laws & Regulations
                      Alcohol and Drug Abuse Counselors
                      Links
                      Email the Board


                      Board of Behavioral Sciences
                              400 R Street
                               Suite 3150
                             Sacramento, CA
                                  95814
                             (916) 445-4933
                           fax (916) 323-0707
                         BBSWebMaster@bbs.ca.gov



   Board of Behavioral Sciences Header




                                              __________ search
                                         ( )  My CA    (*)  BBS Website



   Verify Licenses

   To find an individual, select a license type from the list below. The
   following information will help you narrow down your search:
     * Enter the first or last name in the fields provided.
     * A zip code, or city as a second criteria will narrow down the
       search and help bring up the information quicker.
     * If entering the license number in the field provided, do not enter
       the prefix for a license number. Enter numbers only.
     * If the person you are seeking is not in the license category type,
       select another category type.

   Marriage and Family Therapists
   (category includes licensees, and interns)

   MFTs are authorized to employ psychotherapeutic techniques with
   individuals, couples, families, and groups to improve the clients'
   interpersonal functions.

   Licensed Clinical Social Workers
   (category includes licensees, and associates)

   LCSWs are authorized to employ psychotherapeutic techniques, among
   other services, with individuals, couples, families, and groups to
   improve the clients' quality of life.

   Licensed Educational Psychologists

   LEPs are authorized to provide educational evaluation, diagnosis, and
   test interpretation limited to assessment of academic ability,
   counseling services, and educational consultation.

   Continuing Education Providers

   MFT Referral Services

   If there is any pending or final disciplinary actions against a
   licensee or registrant, the information will be included.

   DISCLAIMER FOR DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS

   Disciplinary actions rendered by the Board of Behavioral Sciences
   become operative on the effective date except in situations where the
   licensee obtains a court-ordered stay. This may occur after the
   publication of the information in this website.

   For updated information on stay orders and appeals, or for further
   information on specific discipline for a person listed, you may
   telephone the Board at (916) 445-4933 and ask for the Board's
   Enforcement Unit.
   DISCIPLINARY TERMINOLOGY

   Revocation, or revoked - The license or registration is canceled and
   the right to practice is ended.
   Suspension - The licensee or registrant is prohibited from practicing
   for a specific period of time.
   Stayed - The revocation or suspension is postponed, and the licensee or
   registrant is put on probation.
   Probation - The licensee or registrant may continue to practice under
   specific terms and conditions.
   Voluntary Surrender / Surrender of License - The licensee or registrant
   turns in the license or registration while charges are still pending.
   The right to practice is ended.
   Effective Decision Date - The date the disciplinary action goes into
   operation.
   Public Reprimand - The licensee or registrant is issued a letter of
   reprimand resulting from a disciplinary action or pursuant to Business
   and Professions Code Section 495.
   Writ of Mandate - The respondent has appealed the Board's Decision to
   the Superior Court.
   Stay - The Board or Court has ordered the Board's Decision to not be
   enforced pending further action.

   Updated: September 17, 2001

                             Back to Top of Page
       2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Privacy Policy
                             |Conditions of Use
