http://lamarsmith.house.gov/home.html


   [spacer.gif]



                                  [flag.gif]



                            The War on Terrorism

    Click Here for news links, contact information to report leads to the
                         FBI, and other information.

        America is engaged in a war on terrorism.  The terrorism launched
   against us isn't just an attack against Americans; it is an attack
   against the principles of freedom and freedom-loving people around the
   world.  We must bring to justice and punish the terrorists themselves
   as well as anyone or any state that assisted the terrorists.

        Security is a concern for all of us.  Congress recently passed
   anti-terrorism legislation, signed into law by President Bush, that
   provides U.S. law enforcement officials with the tools they need to
   investigate and pursue suspected terrorists.  Congress also passed
   airline security legislation in order to return safety to our skies.
   The legislation was signed into law prior to the Thanksgiving
   holiday.

        In addition to real threats, law enforcement officials have
   responded to countless suspicious events that are eventually revealed
   as hoaxes.  Perpetrators of hoaxes who prey on fear should be held
   responsible for their actions.  I have introduced anti-hoax legislation
   that creates criminal and civil penalties for falsely reporting
   chemical, biological or nuclear threats including those in written or
   verbal form, as well as those communicated through physical actions.

        Though stormy winds blow around us, we still live in a land of
   prosperity and relative peace that few in the world can even imagine.
   We will weather this gale with the resolute determination that marks us
   as Americans.  We remain united, resolved to defeat terrorism and
   protect American lives.

        Check back for further updates.

   lamarsig.gif (3368 bytes)

   * Neither my office, nor the U.S. House of Representatives is
   responsible for the content of the non-House links contained in my web
   site.  Concerned about my Internet and Security privacy policy?  Click
   here to find out.
