http://louisville.fbi.gov/contact/fo/louisville/infraweb.htm

          NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROTECTION AND COMPUTER INTRUSION

                              National Infrastructure Protection

            On May 22, 1998, President Clinton signed Presidential
   Decision Directive 63 (PDD-63). The FBI traditionally becomes involved
   in the investigation of terrorist threats to physical infrastructures
   including such areas as in the banking, telecommunication, and
   transportation industries. However, recent advances in communications
   technologies, and computer hardware and software, have made these
   infrastructures potentially more vulnerable to disruption or
   incapacitation from a cyber perspective. The National Infrastructure
   Protection Center (NIPC), located at FBI Headquarters in Washington,
   DC, was established on February 26, 1998, to address these issues and
   investigate cyber and physical threats against those areas outlined in
   PDD-63.

                              InfraGard

            The NIPC, in partnership with private industry, has formed the
   National InfraGard Program. This program is dedicated towards
   increasing the security of critical infrastructures in the United
   States. It is founded on the principle that information exchange
   regarding threats and attacks to our critical infrastructures is
   essential for effective protection. The goal is to enable information
   flow so that owners and operators can better protect themselves, and
   the United States government can better discharge its law enforcement
   and national security responsibilities.

   A New Initiative. As part of its mission, the NIPC conducts outreach
   and information sharing with the public and private-sector owners and
   operators of critical infrastructures. The InfraGard program is now an
   essential part of the NIPC's nationwide outreach efforts. The program
   establishes a mechanism for two-way information sharing about intrusion
   incidents and system vulnerabilities and provides a channel for the
   NIPC to disseminate analytical threat products to the private sector.

   The NIPC's mission is to serve as the U.S. government's focal point for
   threat assessment, warning, investigation, and response for threats or
   attacks against our critical infrastructures. These infrastructures,
   which include telecommunications, energy, banking and finance, water
   systems, government operations, and emergency services, are the
   foundation upon which our industrialized society is based.

   You are visiting the website of the new Kentucky Chapter of
   InfraGard. On August 12, 1999, the Kentucky INFRAGARD Chapter was
   formed. Our headquarters is in Louisville, KY, and we conduct meetings
   at several locations throughout the state on a quarterly basis. A
   description of InfraGard is as follows:

                      The NIPC is now working with representatives from
   private industry,
                      the academic community, and the public sector, to
   form local InfraGard
                      Chapters.

   Program Objectives. The InfraGard program is designed to address the
   need for a private and public-sector information sharing mechanism at
   both national and local levels. Its objectives are as follows:

                      - provide members a forum for education and training
   on
                           infrastructure vulnerabilities and protection
   measures;
                      - provide members prompt, value-added threat
   advisories, alerts,
                           and warnings;
                      - ensure the protection of computer intrusion/threat
   data shared
                           among InfraGard members, FBI field offices, and
   the NIPC
                           through compliance with proprietary, legal, and
   security
                           requirements;
                      - increase the quantity and quality of
   infrastructure intrusion/threat
                           reports provided to local FBI field offices
   (for investigation and
                           follow-up) and the NIPC (for national-level
   analysis); and,
                           increase interaction and information sharing
   among InfraGard
                           members, their associated local FBI field
   offices, and the NIPC,
                           on infrastructure threats, vulnerabilities, and
   interdependencies.

   Program Services. The InfraGard program provides four basic
   capabilities or services to its members. Members of InfraGard
   participate in local chapter activities; have access to an Alert
   Network to voluntarily report actual or attempted illegal intrusions,
   disruptions, and vulnerabilities of information systems; can access a
   secure InfraGard Website with recent information about infrastructure
   protection; and can call the Help Desk at the NIPC to ask questions
   about the program. These services establish secure communications among
   members and facilitate the cooperative effort for which InfraGard was
   founded.

   Local Chapter Activities. Each InfraGard chapter will develop a
   specialized program that addresses the unique needs of the local
   membership. Representatives from the local FBI field office will assist
   InfraGard members in identifying their infrastructure protection
   concerns and needs. The following list illustrates some of the
   activities that are available through the Kentucky INFRAGARD Chapter:

                      - presentations on infrastructure protection;
                      - regular chapter meetings where members present
   discussion
                           topics;
                      - a Cyber-Awareness campaign for members and
   nonmembers.

   Alert Network. The Alert Network is designed to provide each InfraGard
   member with a mechanism to voluntarily notify the FBI in the event of a
   physical or cyber attack. When a member determines that a report is
   appropriate, the member uses encryption technology furnished by the
   NIPC to send two descriptions of the incident to the NIPC:

                      - a "sanitized" description of the incident provides
   relevant
                           information but does not identify the victim
   member. This
                           description is immediately furnished by the
   NIPC to all other
                           InfraGard members so that they may take action
   to protect their
                           own systems; and,
                     - a detailed description of the incident gives the
   NIPC information
                           about the victim's identity and enough
   background to conduct an
                           in-depth analysis of the threat. The FBI uses
   the detailed report
                           to determine if a criminal investigation is
   warranted.

   The NIPC also takes information supplied by the members of InfraGard,
   the Intelligence Community, and criminal investigative sources to
   produce periodic threat reports for InfraGard members.

   Secure Website. The InfraGard Secure Website provides members with
   information about recent intrusions, research related to infrastructure
   protection, and the capability to communicate securely with other
   members. The Website has the following features:

                      what's new - Real-time information about
   infrastructure
                           protection;
                      sector news - Critical Infrastructure related links,
   recent news
                           articles and press releases;
                      chapter news - Internal links for each chapter to
   post
                           chapter-specific information;
                      discussion groups - A secure, integrated electronic
   discussion
                           group capability;
                      related links - External links to NIPC Web Page and
                           additional infrastructure protection resources;
                      archives and research - Internal links to recent
   intrusion
                           summaries, computer security technical papers,
   and hacker case
                           summaries; and,
                      contact/feedback - Links to all FBI Field Offices
   and the
                           National InfraGard Program Office,
   InfraGard@fbi.gov.

                           Computer Crimes

            Computer intrusion investigations address cyber threats and
   incidents that target or compromise the confidentiality, integrity, and
   availability of computers and information systems, especially those
   associated with critical infrastructures. Title 18 U.S.C., Section
   1030, outlines the offenses related to federal computer crimes.

                      The more common types of computer crimes on the
   Internet include:

                              child pornography;
                              illegal gambling;
                              computer viruses;
                              identity fraud;
                              cyber terrorism;
                              terrorism; and,
                              fraud schemes.

   Questions.  If you would like more information about the Kentucky
   INFRAGARD program or infrastructure protection in general, please
   contact the INFRAGARD coordinator at 502-583-3941 or send an email
   message to citac.louisville@fbi.gov. If you would like additional
   information about the National Infrastructure Protection Center, please
   inquire via e-mail at nipc@fbi.gov.

                        Link to Louisville Home page

                         Privacy and Security Notice
