http://www.wff.nasa.gov/pages/vision.html

   Skip past top navigation links Return to Wallops Home Welcome to
   Wallops Doing Business with Wallops Programs and Projects
     Technical Capabilities Public and Education Outreach Supporting
   NASA's Enterprises

   Welcome to Wallops



Organization
Getting to Wallops
Vision and Mission
Wallops Philosophy
History of Wallops
Location Maps
Site Map

Vision and Mission

   silo Preparing for the challenges and opportunities of the next
   century, Goddard Space Flight Center`s Wallops Flight Facility has
   developed a Mission 2000 Strategic Plan that reflects both Goddard`s
   and NASA`s Mission 2000 plans. Download Adobe Acrobat Reader

   NASA`s overall strategic plan identifies Goddard as its International
   Center of Excellence for research in Earth sciences, space science and
   technology. For the Wallops Flight Facility, as a part of Goddard, the
   overall vision is:

   Wallops Flight Facility will be a national resource for providing
   low-cost integration, launch, and operation of suborbital and small
   orbital payloads.

   Wallops is a national resource for providing low-cost integration,
   launch and operation of suborbital and small orbital payloads that
   support space-based research focused on Earth and its environments.

   The Wallops Flight Facility mission is to:

   Further scientific, educational and economic advancement by providing
   the facilities and expertise to enable frequent flight opportunities
   for a diverse customer base.

   As an operational test site for the next generation of low-cost launch
   technologies, Wallops supports the commercial development of space
   technologies and the dissemination of information through educational
   and outreach programs. We are recognized as a role model for pioneering
   productive and innovative government, industry and academic
   partnerships.

   Wallops key mission elements include:

   Suborbital Program—Wallops will continue to manage and implement NASA`s
   Sounding Rocket and Balloon Programs in support of the Earth Sciences
   and Space Science Enterprises. New technologies such as a 100-day
   balloon capability as part of the Ultra Long Duration Balloon will be
   integrated into the program.

   Low-Cost Orbital Missions—Technical support for University Class
   Explorer missions and small payloads for Space Shuttle missions become
   a Wallops responsibility under the Mission 2000 Strategic Plan.

   Operational Test Facilities—As a high-fidelity proving ground for
   enabling the development of next generation low-cost orbital launch
   technologies, Wallops supports projects such as the Bantam Lifter.
   Partnership arrangements with Wallops` Navy tenants and other major
   users promote the use of Wallops` resources as an operational test
   facility.

   Commercial Development and Educational Outreach—Wallops promotes the
   development of a commercial orbital launch complex that supports small-
   to medium-class launch requirements. Partnerships formed with industry
   and academia foster educational outreach programs.

   Our ongoing programs and projects support all four NASA
   Enterprises—Earth Sciences, Space Science, Aeronautics and Space
   Transportation Technology, and Human Exploration and Development of
   Space—as well as the development and testing of space-based technology.
   We will continue to share information and technology that has practical
   applications and benefits for society and reach out to the community
   with educational programs that promote aeronautical curricula and an
   understanding of NASA`s programs.


     To NASA
     To NASA Concact Wallops
             Contact Wallops Wallops Home
                             Wallops Home
