http://ffas.usda.gov/info/agexporter/2002/Jan/page09.pdf

   January 2002 9 Beautiful Belize: A Market With Potential ing import
   licenses are cumbersome and lack transparency; the U.S. government has
   work to do to achieve more open trade and product access. 30082, 30119,
   30120 By Daniel Orellana and Frank Coolidge Belize bars imports of many
   B products, such as rice, beans, flour, elize may be the second
   smallest pepper sauce, peanut butter and cit- country in Central
   America, but it rus; imports are permitted only if there offers
   opportunities for exporters is a declared national shortage. Import du-
   Potential in able to overcome risks and willing ties on food products
   are high, averaging Processed Foods to explore new markets. 20 percent;
   a further tax of 18 percent is Processed foods offer further opportu-
   levied on all food items. nities. Belize can supply only a fraction of
   Belize at a Glance the products needed by its processed food Belize has
   a population of 243,000. Market Outlets industry. The United States is
   the country's main The supermarket concept in Belize is Until recently,
   Belize imported about trading partner. In 2000, the United States more
   mature than elsewhere in Central $5.7 million in dairy products and
   $1.2 exported $32 million in agricultural prod- America. A growing
   number of shoppers million in meat products from Europe per ucts to
   Belize. Consumer-oriented foods use medium-size supermarkets, though so
   year. But due to bovine spongiform en- were top sellers, especially
   snacks, fruit and far Belize has only two major chains. cephalopathy
   concerns, Belize has prohib- vegetable juices and chilled meats. But
   Belize has limitations in distribu- ited imports from these
   countries-creating The United States is also a major con- tion and
   storing of refrigerated products. an opening for $6.9 million worth of
   prod- sumer of Belizean goods, buying $67 mil- Outside the capital,
   Belmopan, lack of re- ucts. U.S. firms now have a better chance lion in
   imports, mainly sugar and bananas. frigerated transport and the high
   costs of to compete for this market. But sales disparity does not mean
   the coun- equipment and electricity curtail market Another option with
   potential would try lacks market potential-if several bar-
   opportunities. be for a U.S. firm to form a joint venture riers are
   lifted. However, there is good access to cold with a Belizean firm to
   build and operate a storage in the hotel and restaurant indus- food
   processing plant. The products would Benefits To Consider tries, which
   cater almost exclusively to tour- have immediate access to Caribbean
   coun- Why might U.S. exporters consider ists. These businesses also
   tend to have tries and highway links to the rest of Cen- shipping to
   Belize? It's nearby, and strongly wider latitude to import raw
   materials tral America. influenced by North American culture. It's than
   supermarkets do. directly accessible by air and sea, and En- Most
   consumer product sales at the The authors are the agricultural
   specialist glish is the official language. high end of the tourism
   industry take place and the agricultural counselor, the Office of Since
   1976, the Belizean dollar has been on Belize's islands. There may be an
   op- Agricultural Affairs, U.S. Embassy, Guatemala pegged to the U.S.
   dollar at two to one. portunity to run a supply service to the City,
   Guatemala. Tel.: (011-502) 331-1541; Belize's per capita income level,
   $2,800, is islands, but costs haven't been calculated. Fax: (011-502)
   331-8293 E-mail: among the highest in Central America. In the last few
   years, over 10,000 Chi- agguatemala@fas.usda.gov nese have settled in
   Belize, creating a po- A Country of Challenges tential niche market for
   U.S. producers of For details, see FAS Report But there are
   requirements to challenge Asian foods. BH1001. To find it on the Web,
   exporters. To protect local agricultural pro- There is a trend toward
   more small go to www.fas.usda.gov, se- duction, the government requires
   import convenience stores attached to gas stations, lect Attaché
   Reports and licenses on 27 products, including eggs, creating
   opportunities for snacks and other follow the prompts. meats and
   potatoes. Procedures for obtain- ready-to-eat products.
