http://www.gsa.gov/Portal/content/offerings_content.jsp?contentOID=116694&contentType=1004&P=1&S=1


   GSA Logo Skip navigation. If any content on this page is not accessible
            contact webmaster@gsa.gov
            U.S. General Services Administration


   Username  ____ Password  ____  Submit | Register for MyGSA
   Search  __________ Go Search GSA   FAQ  |  Help
   -
   -
   - Home - Buying through GSA - Selling to the Government - About GSA -
   Contacts -
   -
   -

    Events

   • NFC Events Calendar
   • FOSE 2002

    Publications

   • Best Value Determination Guidelines
   • Comprehensive Furniture Management Services
   • Express Desk
   • Express Desk Checklist
   • Furniture Systems Guide
   • National Furniture Center
   • National Furniture Center (Trifold)
   • Packaged Furniture Program
   • Packaged Office Program
   • Services Menu
   • Technical Documents, Performance and Test Standards
   • Multiple Award Schedules Program Owners Manual

    Organizations

   • Automotive
   • General Products
   • Hardware and Appliances (Hardware Superstore)
   • Information Technology
   • Management Services
   • Office and Scientific Equipment
   • Office Supplies and Paper Products
   • Professional Services
   • Customer Supply Center
     __________________________________________________________________

       • GSA Jobs
    • FirstGov
   - -

National Furniture Center (NFC)

   National Furniture Center
   (703) 305-7003
   Fax: (703) 305-7934
   National Customer Service Center (NCSC)
   (800) 488-3111
   DSN 465-1416

   Show FAQ

   Printer Friendly | Add to MyGSA
   Rate This Page

   The NFC provides all types of furniture, furnishings and services for
   various dormitory, residential and office settings. Selections include
   a variety of furniture, floor and wall coverings, curtains and other
   related furnishings to fit any environment. The NFC offers a complete
   turnkey solution for large furniture purchases and their service is
   unmatched in the U.S. government.

   Whether it be bachelor housing, 21st century knowledge centers,
   traditional office space, classrooms, patient rooms or any other
   furniture-related service, GSAs National Furniture Center and Americas
   leading furnishing suppliers can deliver a solution that fits your
   environment and your budget. Its time to re-think the way you look at
   GSA your partner in creating the quality work environment that meets
   your exact needs. Today, GSA offers you ALTERNATIVES more choices, more
   options, more ways to help you enhance your work environment and
   improve the productivity and quality of life for your employees.
   As purchasing policies change, we are challenged with making the way
   you buy from GSA simpler, easier and less expensive. One way for the
   NFC to achieve this is to consolidate our schedules. As part of an
   overall effort within the Federal Supply Service, the NFC began a
   program to review existing Multiple Award Federal Supply Schedules
   (MAS) to determine whether efficiencies could be made through merging.
   This consolidation allows our commercial partners to have all their
   items, intended for particular environments, under one contract and
   allows you the ability to purchase the furniture and furnishings you
   need with value and ease.
   National Furniture Center Schedules:

   58-I     Professional Communications Equipment
   71-I     Office Furniture
   71-II    Household and Quarters Furniture
   71-II-H  Packaged Furniture
   71-II-K  Comprehensive Furniture Management Services
   71-III   Special Use Furniture
   71-III-E Miscellaneous Furniture
   72-I-A   Floor Coverings
   72-II    Furnishings
   GSAs NFC is, indeed, a one-stop shop for all furniture and furnishing
   solutions. We offer exceptional pricing on every product, from budget
   to very high-end. We have flexible shipping times and offer expert
   advice to ensure the best value for your budget and the right products
   for your needs.
   What you get from GSA s National Furniture Center:
   Contracting Expertise
     * Market Research
     * Technical Requirements
     * Performance Evaluation Criteria
     * Guaranteed Competitive Pricing
     * Quality Furnishings at Significant Discounts
     * Order Placement
     * Dispute Resolution

   Turnkey Service
     * Project Management
     * Inside Delivery and Site Coordination
     * On-site Furniture Installation
     * Clean-up
     * Staging/Phasing Delivery
     * Customer Service Follow-up
     * Sample Evaluation
     * Site Visits
     * Ancillary Services

   Better Choices
     * Product Integration
     * Leasing Solutions
     * Service Solutions
     * Green Furniture and Furnishings
     * Engineering Services
     * Budgeting Across Fiscal Years
     * Cash Flow Reporting

   Through our Contracting, Engineering, Customer Service, Purchasing and
   Marketing Departments we offer you complete personalized customer
   assistance and order processing. We can:
     * Recommend existing products
     * Provide samples for your evaluation
     * Research new products
     * Develop performance evaluation criteria
     * Locate difficult-to-find items
     * Evaluate technical requirements
     * Provide consultation and design services
     * Negotiate extended warranties
     * Develop procurement strategies
     * Resolve disputes and deficiency complaints
     * Carry funds across fiscal years Furniture Center

    FAQ
   NFC
    1. Can the National Furniture Center provide turnkey assistance on
       large procurement projects for various types of furniture including
       furniture systems, conventional office and conference room,
       classroom, and residential/dormitory furniture?
    2. Would Federal agency personnel work with a single point of contact
       or with several individuals representing the various parts of GSA?
    3. What is the cost of the NFC services (flat fee, by service
       performed, etc.)?
    4. How does the NFC coordinate the receipt and installation of
       furniture needs with the construction and renovation requirements?
    5. If initial space planning has been done, how is that coordinated so
       that the customer agency does not pay for duplicate design
       services?
    6. Who maintains quality control on the furniture as shipments are
       received and during the installation process?
    7. What working experience does the NFC have with the Department of
       Prison Industries (UNICOR) for furniture procurement?
    8. What other specific services and conveniences does the NFC provide
       for Federal agencies?
       Schedules
    9. What exactly is the difference between a GWAC and a Multiple Award
       Schedule contract?
   10. Then what is the difference between a Multiple Award Schedule IDIQ
       contract and other agencies' IDIQ contracts?
   11. How do I know I am getting the best price?
   12. How is purchasing from Multiple Award Schedules better than
       purchasing on the open market?
   13. Is it true ordering from Multiple Award Schedules is as easy as
       1-2-3?
   14. Okay, but what about documentation requirements?
   15. Can I order Multiple Award Schedules products electronically?
   16. Can the Multiple Award Schedules meet all of my needs? Even large
       or complex requirements? What if the Schedule contractor doesnt
       have everything under contract?
   17. Sometimes I need delivery right away. Can I get it when I use
       Schedules?
   18. What is all this talk about a Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA)
       under the Multiple Award Schedule? What exactly is it?
   19. But I thought BPAs are for Simplified Acquisition Purchases and are
       restricted to $100,000?
   20. What is this new Maximum Order Threshold that everyone is so
       excited about?
   21. How can I be sure the products or services I need will always be
       available on a Schedule Contract?
   22. Can I use my government credit card for payment?
   23. When I place an order under a Schedule contract does it really meet
       Competition in Contracting Act requirements?
   24. What about purchasing information technology (IT) products? Doesnt
       the FIRMR still apply?
   25. But, I still have to do a CBD notice for IT purchases over $50,000?
   26. Can you explain the Teaming Arrangements in more detail?
   27. How can I be certain I will always be able to get the latest
       technology under Schedule?

       NFC
     Can the National Furniture Center provide turnkey assistance on large
       procurement projects for various types of furniture including
       furniture systems, conventional office and conference room,
       classroom, and residential/dormitory furniture?
       The National Furniture Center can provide assistance for "turnkey"
       projects on large purchases for any type of furniture. The National
       Furniture Center has in excess of eight years of specialized
       experience in procuring, coordinating and administering projects
       for furniture systems, collateral furniture, floor coverings and
       related furnishings. The collective expertise and capability for
       furniture procurement available through the NFC is unparalleled in
       the U.S. Government.
     Would Federal agency personnel work with a single point of contact or
       with several individuals representing the various parts of GSA?
       The GSA Federal Supply Service, the Public Buildings Service, and
       the Information Technology Service have established procedures for
       coordination of projects with a single point of contact for
       customers. We have also worked closely with the U. S. Army Corps of
       Engineers on several projects for construction and furnishings.
     What is the cost of the NFC services (flat fee, by service performed,
       etc.)?
       Established fees for services are 5% on furniture systems projects.
       They range for other commodity open market Definite Quantity
       purchases. For purchases up to $2500 the fee is 50%, between
       $2500.01 and $50,000 the fee is 25%, and for purchases between
       $50,000.01 and $100,000 the fee is 15%. These fees are negotiable
       in the case of very large consolidated procurements.
     How does the NFC coordinate the receipt and installation of furniture
       needs with the construction and renovation requirements?
       Installation of furniture would be coordinated and scheduled to
       coincide with the completion of construction at the installation
       site. Installation would be phased according to specific agency
       requirements. Coordination would be through GSA with the
       concurrence of the requisitioning agency.
     If initial space planning has been done, how is that coordinated so
       that the customer agency does not pay for duplicate design
       services?
       The NFC will identify the specific design requirements of the
       Federal agency requiring furniture design. In furniture systems
       projects, the successful vendor is responsible for converting the
       generic space plans and prototypicals of the requesting agency to
       their specific contract product. The number of hours required to
       perform this service varies depending on the accuracy of the
       agency-provided space plans; however, the process which the NFC
       uses to procure the furniture puts services on a competitive basis
       maintaining very reasonable costs far below the normal cost.
     Who maintains quality control on the furniture as shipments are
       received and during the installation process?
       In the case of furniture systems or turnkey projects, the
       successful vendor is responsible for receipt and inspection of
       product as it is received and installed. Acceptance by the Federal
       customer does not take place until the installation is complete and
       to the satisfaction of the customer agency project manager.
       Specific customer requirements and agendas can be accommodated as
       required.
     What working experience does the NFC have with the Department of
       Prison Industries (UNICOR) for furniture procurement?
       When necessary, the NFC meets with UNICOR at the customers request
       in order to resolve problems which arise during the waiver process;
       however, the customer agency is basically responsible for obtaining
       waivers from UNICOR.
     What other specific services and conveniences does the NFC provide
       for Federal agencies?
       Extensive Product Availability: Most general categories of
       furniture products are on GSA contract and can be procured through
       the National Furniture Center existing contracts. Open market
       products can also be procured through various types of open market
       procurement methods, depending on the size of the procurement.
       Budgetary Convenience: The GSA National Furniture Center can and
       does accept money obligated through requisition forms DD 1348-6
       (Milstrip) and SF-344 (Fedstrip) placed with the GSA General Supply
       Fund for specific furniture projects. Funding is considered
       obligated at the time of requisition receipt by GSA and can be used
       for the purchase of furniture and related services on specific
       projects beyond Fiscal Year lines.
       Design: The GSA National Furniture Center can be flexible on design
       and procurement methods. The procurement documents can be developed
       to include complete space planning services or transfers from space
       plans as necessary, based on generic prototypicals and/or
       preliminary space plans. The National Furniture Center can also
       facilitate the refurbishing of existing furniture, if that becomes
       necessary.
       Project Management: The GSA National Furniture Center can provide a
       single point of contact for oversight of whole projects.
       Cradle-to-grave type procurement for furniture can specify turn-key
       acceptance to include installation of all products through a
       primary vendor, or installation can be by individual contract
       vendors with GSA oversight. In systems furniture projects, the
       successful vendor is responsible for the receipt and inspection of
       product as it is received and installed. Acceptance by the Federal
       agency would not take place until the installation is complete and
       to the satisfaction of the customer agency project manager. The
       solicitation can specify services as required by the procuring
       activity for a specific project.
       Back to Summary
       Schedules
     What exactly is the difference between a GWAC and a Multiple Award
       Schedule contract?
       A Multiple Award Schedule is a Indefinite Quantity, Indefinite
       Delivery (IDIQ) contract available to all Federal agencies
       world-wide. Agencies place orders directly with the contractor. The
       middle man has been removed. Interagency Agreements are not
       required to use Multiple Award Schedules.
     Then what is the difference between a Multiple Award Schedule IDIQ
       contract and other agencies' IDIQ contracts?
       The Multiple Award Schedules program provides Federal customers
       with over 4 million products from more than 6,000 vendors, without
       ordering restrictions, around the world.
       Other agencies' IDIQs primarily are for use by the host agency.
       Access is limited to other agencies and limited sources are
       available. In some cases ordering must go through the "host"
       agency. Some require approval letters, documentation for best value
       selection, price determinations, etc.
     How do I know I am getting the best price?
       GSAs goal is to be your best value supplier of choice.
       Multiple Award Schedules contracts offer Most Favored Customer
       discounts. Quantity discounts may also be available. Additional
       price reductions may be obtained by individual agencies. (This
       provision alone prevents anyone from claiming to beat GSA prices
       without contacting Multiple Award Schedule contractors first.)
     How is purchasing from Multiple Award Schedules better than
       purchasing on the open market?
       When you purchase from Schedules you know that:
       GSA has already determined the price to be fair and reasonable.
       Synopsis is not required. Multiple Award Schedules contracts have
       been awarded in compliance with all applicable laws and
       regulations. Administrative time is reduced. A wide selection of
       commercial items are available. Easy ordering.
     Is it true ordering from Multiple Award Schedules is as easy as
       1-2-3?
       YES! You simply:
       Obtain the Federal Supply Schedule or click on GSA Advantage!
       (http://www.gsaAdvantage.gov) Review products or services to make a
       best value selection. (Seek price reductions see FAR 8.404(b)(3) +
       (5)). Place your order.
     Okay, but what about documentation requirements?
       Thats been simplified too. Your basic ordering information is all
       that GSA requires for most orders. For orders above the
       micropurchase threshold that are brand-name specific see FAR
       8.404(b)(7).
     Can I order Multiple Award Schedules products electronically?
       Multiple Award Schedules' implementation on GSA Advantage!, our
       electronic shopping mall, is successfully underway! Currently, GSA
       Advantage! has over 325,000 items available and the number is
       growing daily. In the next 12 months all Multiple Award Schedules
       will be on GSA Advantage! Electronic ordering through use of GSA
       Advantage! allows you to send your order directly to the contractor
       creating a contractor -- customer relationship.
     Can the Multiple Award Schedules meet all of my needs? Even large or
       complex requirements? What if the Schedule contractor doesnt have
       everything under contract?
       With over 4 million commercial items available Multiple Award
       Schedules can meet the vast majority of your needs. For those large
       or complex requirements Multiple Award Schedules contractors can
       now join with other schedule contract holders and submit a total
       solution to meet your needs under a Team Arrangement. The
       modification process allows contractors to modify contracts at any
       time during the contract period. Therefore, contractors have the
       ability to place, under contract today, new items to meet your
       needs. This also assures the latest technology is always available
       to the customer. Incidental items may be added to a schedule
       delivery order as long as it results in the lowest overall cost,
       the appropriate procurement regulations have been applied, and the
       price has been determined fair and reasonable.
     Sometimes I need delivery right away. Can I get it when I use
       Schedules?
       Multiple Award Schedule contractors are shortening their delivery
       times. Multiple Award Schedules contractors will identify items in
       their price list that can be delivered faster, overnight or within
       2 days.
     What is all this talk about a Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) under
       the Multiple Award Schedule? What exactly is it?
       Setting up a BPA with a Multiple Award Schedule contractor is a way
       to fill recurring needs while taking advantage of quantity
       discounts, saving administrative time and reducing paperwork.
       In the past, individual orders under a BPA could not exceed the
       maximum order limitation. Today, that is no longer true. With the
       removal of the maximum order limitation, agencies are no longer
       restricted by any dollar limitations when placing orders under a
       BPA.
       With a Multiple Award Schedule BPA you can order as much as you
       want, as little as you want and as often as you want. You can use a
       BPA as an ordering device that your field offices across the nation
       can participate in, allowing them to place orders directly. In
       doing so, your entire agency reaps the benefits of additional
       discounts negotiated into your own BPA!!
       Teaming Arrangements are permitted with Multiple Award Schedule
       Contractors in accordance with FAR 9.6. Teaming Arrangement may be
       incorporated into your BPA!
     But I thought BPAs are for Simplified Acquisition Purchases and are
       restricted to $100,000?
       The use of BPAs under Multiple Award Schedules have been permitted
       for a long time. Check Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
       13.202(c): "BPAs may also be established with Federal Supply
       Schedule contracts...". In the past, individual orders under a BPA
       could not exceed the maximum order limitation. Today, that is no
       longer true. With the removal of the maximum order limitation,
       agencies are no longer restricted by any dollar limitations when
       placing order under a Schedule BPA.
     What is this new Maximum Order Threshold that everyone is so excited
       about?
       This new commercial practice brings more value and choices to our
       customers. Customer orders will no longer be restricted by a
       maximum order limitation. New procedures have been developed that
       allow Schedules contractors to accept "any size" order. In
       accordance with FAR 8.404(b)(3) the maximum order threshold
       represents the point where it is advantageous for customers to seek
       a price reduction. In fact, for orders exceeding this threshold,
       after a customer reviews the pricelist(s) or GSA Advantage!, the
       FAR instructs customers to generally seek price reductions from
       schedule contractor(s) appearing to provide the best value
       (considering price and other factors).
     How can I be sure the products or services I need will always be
       available on a Schedule Contract?
       Schedule contract periods are as long as 5 years with 5 year
       options.
     Can I use my government credit card for payment?
       Acceptance of the government wide credit card is a strongly
       encouraged payment method. Generally, contractors that accept the
       credit card commercially will accept it under Schedules.
     When I place an order under a Schedule contract does it really meet
       Competition in Contracting Act requirements?
       YES! Use of the Multiple Awards Schedule program is a competitive
       procedure (see FAR 6.102(d)(3)).
     What about purchasing information technology (IT) products? Doesnt
       the FIRMR still apply?
       No. Effective August 8, 1996, the FIRMR was canceled and FAR Part
       8.4 applies.
     But, I still have to do a CBD notice for IT purchases over $50,000?
       The requirement for synopsis proposed orders over $50,000 against
       ADP schedules was eliminated in March 1995.
     Can you explain the Teaming Arrangements in more detail?
       Under a Team Arrangement Multiple Award Schedule contractors can
       join with other schedule contract holders and submit a solution, or
       proposal to meet a customers needs.
     How can I be certain I will always be able to get the latest
       technology under Schedule?
       With the new modification process, Schedule contractors can
       continually refresh their Multiple Award Schedule contracts. With
       our IT Schedules a continual open season permits offers to be
       submitted at any time.
       Back to Summary

   Back to Top
   Last Modified 01/29/02

   Accessibility Aids - Cookies - Privacy and Security Policy - Site Map -
   Contact Us

   -
    Related
    Offerings -
   • GSA Schedules
   • Schedule 58 I Professional Communications Equipment
   • Schedule 71 I Office Furniture
   • Schedule 71 II H Packaged Furniture
   • Schedule 71 II Household and Quarters Furniture
   • Schedule 71 II K Comprehensive Furniture Management Services
   • Schedule 71 III - Special Use Furniture
   • Schedule 71 III E - Miscellaneous Furniture
   • Schedule 72 I A Floor Coverings
   • Schedule 72 II Furnishings
   • Quality Partnership Council
   • What's Green
   • For Customers
   • For Vendors
   • Glossary of Terms
   • GSA Schedules FAQ
   • Glossary of Terms
   -
    Related Links -
   • Fedbizopps
   • e-Buy
   • Schedules E-Library (contract award information)
   • GSA Advantage!
   • U-MAS
   • Environmental Programs
   • GSA Schedules
   -
