http://fgdc.gov/nsdi/nsdi.html

   Home What's New Search NSDI Metadata Clearinghouse Standards Framework
   Stakeholders FGDC Funding Publications Data National Spatial Data
   Infrastructure

   Consistent means to share geographic data among all users could produce
   significant savings for data collection and use and enhance decision
   making. Executive Order 12906 calls for the establishment of the
   National Spatial Data Infrastructure defined as the technologies,
   policies, and people necessary to promote sharing of geospatial data
   throughout all levels of government, the private and non-profit
   sectors, and the academic community.

   The goal of this Infrastructure is to reduce duplication of effort
   among agencies, improve quality and reduce costs related to geographic
   information, to make geographic data more accessible to the public, to
   increase the benefits of using available data, and to establish key
   partnerships with states, counties, cities, tribal nations, academia
   and the private sector to increase data availability.

   The NSDI has come to be seen as the technology, policies, criteria,
   standards and people necessary to promote geospatial data sharing
   throughout all levels of government, the private and non-profit
   sectors, and academia. It provides a base or structure of practices and
   relationships among data producers and users that facilitates data
   sharing and use. It is a set of actions and new ways of accessing,
   sharing and using geographic data that enables far more comprehensive
   analysis of data to help decision-makers chose the best course(s) of
   action. Much has been accomplished in recent years to further the
   implementation of the NSDI, but there is still much to be done to
   achieve the vision of current and accurate geographic data being
   readily available across the country.

A Strategy for the NSDI Published April 1997

   This strategy updates the 1994 Strategic Plan for the NSDI. It was
   developed with broad input from stakeholders in the geospatial data
   community, both within and outside of the federal government.
   Organizations who are helping to build the NSDI using the goals and
   objectives outlined in the strategy are:

     * The National States Geographic Information Council
     * The National Association of Counties
     * The Open Gis Consortium
     * The University Consortium for Geographic Information Science
     * The National League of Cities
     * FGDC
     * Cooperating State Councils
     * International City/County Management Association (ICMA)

   NSDI discussion list

National Academy of Public Administration: Geographic Information for the
21st Century

   A panel convened by the National Academy of Public Administration
   (NAPA) conducted a study in 1997 on geographic information resources in
   the United States.

     * Order a copy of the NAPA report

   Community Demonstration Projects

   Initiatives to Foster the NSDI

   FGDC, USGS, 590 National Center, Reston, VA 20192
   URI: http://www.fgdc.gov/nsdi/nsdi.html
   Updated: Thursday, 03-May-2001 10:07:58 EDT
   Send your comments to the F G D C
