http://nsnfp.inel.gov/programDrivers.asp

   Home
   Home - Mission - Fact Sheets - Program Drivers - Program Documents
   SNF Data - What is Spent Nuclear Fuel? - Points of Contact
   Calendar - Lessons Learned - Related Links - Newsletters

   Home > Program Drivers
   [dot.gif]


   Program Drivers

   The Office of Spent Fuel Management was created to plan and coordinate
   the management of Department of Energy-owned spent nuclear fuel. It was
   established as a result of a 1992 decision to stop spent nuclear fuel
   reprocessing and was chartered to safely and efficiently manage
   Department of Energy-owned spent nuclear fuel and prepare it for
   disposal. The Spent Nuclear Fuel Program is based upon numerous program
   drivers and must be managed in accordance with them. These drivers have
   origins in laws, regulations, policies, and agreements at the federal,
   state, and local levels. The drivers serve two purposes. They establish
   the structure in which the program must work to accomplish its goals,
   and they dictate what the program must do. The major program drivers
   are listed below.

   In general, the requirements have their origins in:
     * Federal Laws
     * Presidential Orders
     * Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulations and guidance
     * Environmental Protection Agency regulations
     * Department of Transportation requirements
     * DOE Orders, policies, and guidance
     * Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board recommendations
     * Office of Environmental Management requirements
     * State and Local regulations and agreements

   Specific Documents
   Indicates a PDF document. You will need Adobe Acrobat to read these
       files. Adobe Acrobat is free and if you don't already have it you
       can download it here.
     * Settlement Agreement on Spent Nuclear Fuel Between the State of
       Idaho, Department of Energy, and the U. S. Navy
     * EM/RW Memorandom of Agreement furthers section 302(b)(4) of the
       Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA) of 1982, as amended. It defines the
       terms and conditions for federal agencies equivalent to those set
       forth in the NWPA for non-federal agencies. (800 KB)
     * Final Environmental Impact Statement On a Proposed Nuclear Weapons
       Nonproliferation Policy Concerning Foreign Research Reactor Spent
       Nuclear Fuel
     * The Record of Decision of the DOE Programmatic SNF Management and
       INEL Environmental Restoration and Waste Management Programs Final
       Environmental Impact Statement, May 1995; Including the Amendment,
       March 1996
     * Hanford Federal Facility Agreement and Consent Order (Tri-Party
       Agreement)
     * Supplement Analysis for a Container System for the Management of
       DOE Spent Nuclear Fuel Located at the INEEL (310 KB)
     * Environmental Impact Statement for the Management of SNF Currently
       Stored in the K-Basins (Hanford Site)
     * Storage and Disposition of Weapons-Usable Fissile Materials
       Programmatic Final Environmental Impact Statement
     * Environmental Impact Statement for a Multi-Purpose Canister System
       for the Management of Civilian and Naval Spent Nuclear Fuel
     * Environmental Impact Statement Geologic Repository for the Disposal
       of Spent Nuclear Fuel and High-Level Waste at Yucca Mountain, Nye
       County, Nevada
     * Environmental Impact Statement on the Transfer and Disposition of
       Surplus Highly Enriched Uranium
     * Savannah River Site Specific Environmental Impact Statement (Notice
       of Intent coming in Federal Register)
     * Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the West Valley
       Demonstration Project and Closure or Long Term Management of
       Facilities at the Western New York Nuclear Service Center
     * Finding of No Significant Impact for the Environmental Assessment,
       Management of Spent Nuclear Fuel on the Oak Ridge Reservation,
       Tennessee (DOE/EA-1117, February 1996)

   Other Documents
     * Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; Energy Reorganization Act of
       1974
       These laws and their implementing regulations (primarily in 10 CFR
       Chapter 1) specify the fundamental framework for the safety and
       licensing of nuclear activities and facilities for both domestic
       and foreign applicants. The functions of the Nuclear Regulatory
       Commission are identified in the Energy Reorganization Act.
     * Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (and 1987 amendments and the
       Energy Policy Act of 1992)
       This law and its primary implementing regulations in 10 CFR 60 and
       40 CFR 191 specify the requirements for characterization and
       licensing of a federal high-level waste repository.
     * National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
       This law and its implementing regulations in 40 CFR 1500-1508 (on a
       government wide basis) and 10 CFR 1021 (for DOE) specify the
       requirements for soliciting public participation in all federal
       actions that impact the environment. In conjunction with the
       passage of this law, a Presidential Order was issued in 1970
       specifying the formation of the Environmental Protection Agency.
     * Federal environmental laws
       A number of federal environmental statutes have direct and/or
       indirect impact on the management of DOE-owned SNF. Examples
       include the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air
       Act, the Clean Water Act, and the Safe Drinking Water Act.
     * Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (DNFSB) recommendations
       The DNFSB is an independent review board responsible for providing
       advice and recommendations to the President and the Secretary of
       Energy regarding public health and safety issues at nuclear
       facilities associated with defense programs.

   [dot.gif]

   Information Owner: Sheryl Morton - NSNFP Staff, slm@inel.gov,
   208-526-8247.
   Web Contact: Dean Frickey, hmf@inel.gov, 208-526-0680.

   Date Last Modified: Wednesday, August 15, 2001
