http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/ca9/Documents.nsf/8e0e7f41ebb23094882567f50054bd5f/28915a5eb27b48a188256ab20077bdec?OpenDocument

   United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
   9th Circuit In The NEWS

   Subject: Release Date: Comments:
   Chief Judge Schroeder's State of the Circuit Speech -- Sunday, July 15,
   2001 08/23/2001 .

   You may also download the file from this page. Click on the .pdf icon
   below to start your download. Adobe Acrobat v4.x is required to
   download all .pdf files. In order to view the document, scroll down.

   [dpm_eyl.gif]

   File for Download:

   File Type:

   Adobe Acrobat 4.0 (pdf)
                          Attachment:

                          [0.119C?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
                                                                  File Size:

                                                                  14.9KBytes

   [0.14F4?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
   [0.1F0C?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
   [0.28A6?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
   [dpm_eyr.gif]
   NOTE: To view the ORIGINAL document in its entirety, click on the Icon
   above and select 'Open it' (if prompted). The view below does NOT
   include footnotes or advanced formatting features of the original
   document.
   STATE OF THE CIRCUIT SPEECH
   Big Sky, Montana
   Sunday, July 15, 2001 (2:30 p.m.)
   It is my very great pleasure to welcome you to Big Sky on behalf of the
   Ninth
   Circuit. We have waited many years to come here, for this marks the
   first time,
   within judicial memory, that we have met in the great state of Montana.
   This is not
   because of any reluctance on our part, but because it was not until
   recently that the
   needed meeting space and facilities for our conference were constructed
   here in Big
   Sky. The closest we came to Montana was about 20 years ago, when we met
   in
   Jackson Hole, Wyoming. This caused a number of purists to raise their
   eyes
   heavenward in utter disdain, because Jackson Hole, though just down the
   road, is in
   the Tenth Circuit.
   This is an important conference to me, not just because it is my first
   conference as
   chief, but because it provided the impetus for my very first executive
   decision,
   several years before I became chief judge. I was asked to choose
   between having
   the conference toward the end of August, which is more in line with
   what has been
   our traditional meeting time, or having the conference in mid-July. I
   opted for the July
   date so that school would be out and families could attend. The next
   two
   conferences will also be in June or July for the same reason. But if
   anyone wants to
   go back to August let me know for 2004.
   We owe enormous thanks to our committee of judges and lawyers listed on
   the back
   of the program headed by Circuit Judge Margaret McKeown as general
   chair and
   District Judge Mike Hogan as program chair, for planning this
   conference. We are
   also indebted to our staff headed by Renée Lorda for the Circuit and
   Susan Newell
   for the Court of Appeals. I am pleased to announce that Judge Hogan
   will chair next
   year's conference and attorney Paul Friedman will chair the program
   committee.
   Indeed the program committee this year attacked its job with more gusto
   than usual,
   even for this nationally renowned conference. Chief Judge Hogan hosted
   a Lewis
   and Clark End of the Oregon Trail Dinner at his Oregon home. The dinner
   featured
   fresh buffalo meat, mushrooms and berries and some tubular vegetables
   that
   Sacajawea might have been able to identify but I was not.
   So here we are at last. I have now been chief judge for a little over
   seven months,
   feeling at times that I was flopping about a bit in my predecessor
   Procter Hug's
   shoes. But, in spite of that, the State of the Circuit is excellent.
   This is in large part due to Procter's selfless and perpetual work in
   keeping the
   Circuit united under his strong aegis and in positioning the circuit
   for a significant role
   of leadership in the 21st century. We heaped flowers upon him last year
   and will
   remain in his debt for years to come.
   But right now, we are moving rapidly, some might say headlong, into a
   very new and
   different world -- this will be a world in which legal systems are tied
   together by
   global networks - networks of commerce, communication and technology.
   These
   networks already exist and are already spawning legal issues that we
   must begin to
   respond to in a global way. What system of intellectual property should
   govern
   images generated simultaneously on computers around the world? Do the
   courts
   have any role to play in overseeing scientific research? What standard
   should we use
   to review ethical restrictions on genetically modified food?
   The Ninth Circuit is in a splendid position to develop responses to
   these new issues
   because we are clearly the most global circuit in this country and one
   of the most
   global jurisdictions in the world. After all our western edge in the
   Aleutians is but a
   few miles from Asia, and our southern border links us directly into the
   expanding
   channels of commerce to and from Central and South America. It is in
   the Ninth
   Circuit that first the movies, then the tonight show, and more recently
   the internet
   browser were all born and continue to flourish.
   We are a diverse jurisdiction that mirrors the issues facing the entire
   world - issues
   that arise, for example, when peoples of differing cultural heritages
   seek ways to
   occupy the same space. At the same time our scientific progress through
   genetics
   and the mapping of the human genome is bringing us increasing
   understanding of the
   essence of life and humanity that we all share. There are significant
   problems to be
   faced as governments strive to protect the environment while fueling
   and feeding
   growing populations.
   Whenever competing interests clash, the legal system must be there to
   resolve the
   controversies that inevitably find their way to the courts.
   I am reminded often of a commercial -- I think it is for some kind of
   kitchen stove --
   that miraculously produces pies, turkeys, cupcakes and casseroles - all
   without
   anyone spilling any flour or dirtying any dishes. The part I like is
   the beautifully
   groomed woman who, along with the stove, is apparently responsible for
   all of this
   food preparation, and who sweetly coos at us "i like to cook big, big,
   big." Well, we
   have to think "big, big, big."
   But while we are thinking big, we have to work hard to be in a strong
   position to
   respond to what is coming. And we have been working hard in this past
   year. To get
   ready, let me tell you briefly about a few of our projects.
   First and foremost, we need to be healthy. Judges are human, and like
   all humans,
   judges develop problems and disabilities.
   I know the way that I occasionally lost my temper at home with my own
   children,
   and knew that it happened when I was under particular stress. Yet I
   discovered that
   nowhere in the federal system was there any specialized counseling,
   referral, or
   consultation service, or even a leave policy, designed to assist judges
   under stress,
   judges with substance abuse problems, or judges suffering from any
   other kind of
   physical, mental, or emotional problem.
   So our Circuit Judicial Council established a "Judicial Disability Task
   Force," headed
   by Judge Judith Keep of San Diego, and it reported last year.
   The Disability Task Force found not only that there is no help targeted
   for judges in
   the federal system, but that there are very few services for judges in
   any jurisdiction
   in the country. Judge Keep's task force learned some rather astonishing
   facts. For
   example, at the end of 1999, almost half of our judges were over 65.
   And of persons
   who are over 70, almost four of five have at least one of the following
   chronic
   conditions: arthritis, hypertension, heart disease, diabetes,
   respiratory disease, stroke
   or cancer. More than one in five persons between 45 and 64 have such
   conditions.
   Unless a judge wishes to retire voluntarily, the only procedure
   presently available in
   the federal system to deal with the disabled judge is for someone to
   file a formal
   complaint with the Circuit Judicial Council claiming misconduct or
   disability. The only
   measures the council has for dealing with a judge who is disabled or
   who has
   misbehaved is to censure the judge or take away the judge's cases. It
   is a process
   that is designed not for therapy but for punishment.
   The task force report noted that confidentiality is an absolute must
   for a program set
   up especially for judges. I like the fact the task force report uses
   when it noted that
   "because the current programs were developed for a broader range of
   participants
   than judges, they do not take into account the unique position of
   federal judges, e.g.
   that federal judges, particularly Article III judges, cannot readily be
   removed from
   office, and the unique character traits of judges, e.g. that federal
   judges are
   accustomed to being in control." So true.
   The discussion of stress is perfect. "Classic signs of stress include
   isolation,
   disregarding social needs and disregarding the needs of the family.
   Efficiency and
   capacity for empathy begin to decrease as isolation irritability,
   arrogance and
   forgetfulness increase." Bingo! When judges are in trouble, the system
   is in trouble.
   The report made two central proposals. The first is the creation of an
   assistance line
   to a counselor for communications by judges, their families and staff,
   and with, of
   course, absolute assurances of confidentiality. The second major focus
   is on
   education.
   The proposals are being implemented as we speak, through a superlative
   implementation committee chaired by Circuit Judge Susan Graber of
   Oregon.
   That committee's efforts have been amazing. The committee now has a
   counselor
   under contract who is now available to receive calls from judges, their
   staff and
   family. The counselor can provide some information and point the
   callers in the right
   direction. He has already met with the chief bankruptcy judges and will
   meet with the
   chief district judges next month. In the near future, there should be a
   judge in each
   district who is familiar with the resources in the district, who is
   educated about the
   physical and mental problems that judges may develop, and can help
   point the way
   to assistance. The program is called "PALS" – Private Assistance Line
   Service.
   I want to commend the members of the disability committee for the
   conscientiousness and the enthusiasm with which they have taken on
   these important
   issues. I spoke a little earlier of the gusto of the judicial
   conference committee that
   attacked their subject by dining on wild buffalo meat and mushrooms.
   The disability
   committee's diet is a little different. At their meetings they snack on
   raw soybeans
   and carrots.
   A second priority is communication. We must be able to communicate with
   the bar,
   the public and with other courts. So another very important project we
   have
   undertaken is being spearheaded by the Public Information and Community
   Outreach Committee known affectionately by its members as "PICO" and
   chaired by
   Judge Alicemarie Stotler of the Central District of California. Those
   committee
   members are here at this conference in force wearing tags that say
   "PICO." They are
   going to communicate with you during the course of the conference, to
   ask you what
   you are doing in community outreach and what you are doing to make your
   courts
   more media friendly. This information will help that committee to
   create a kind of
   databank of successful community outreach programs and to collect
   advice for our
   courts on becoming more media friendly. I am particularly interested in
   their project
   to ensure that there is at least one person in each district who can be
   a media
   spokesperson, so that judges who do not wish to communicate directly
   with the
   media can have someone to whom inquiries can be directed. This is
   really important.
   Let me move quickly to an even more concrete subject – construction. In
   the last
   few years, we have completed an astonishing number of building
   projects, thanks in
   no small part to the work of our Space and Facilities Committee chaired
   by Bob
   Coyle of the Eastern District of California. Bob will be stepping down
   this fall and we
   thank him profoundly. New courthouses are now functioning in Las Vegas,
   Phoenix,
   Tucson, and Guam. The drawing board includes new buildings in Eugene,
   San
   Diego, and the largest of them all, Los Angeles.
   There are a lot of unsung heros in our circuit who have been working on
   intractable
   problems. My nominees for the unsung heros and the intractable problem
   of the year
   are judges Steve McNamee of Arizona and Ted Moskowitz of the Southern
   District
   for their work on the problem of rising costs of appointed counsel in
   habeas death
   cases. They have implemented a management and budgeting program for
   such cases
   that has saved more than $400,000. More important, they have reduced
   costs
   without losing sight of the most important value, which is to provide
   competent
   representation to those who need it most. In the face of heavy pressure
   from
   congress, they have refused to cut corners that should not be cut. We
   are grateful.
   The Fairness Committee, under Judge Connie Marshall, chair, has a table
   where they
   are handing out information and hope to encourage diversity in the
   hiring of law
   clerks and perhaps get you thinking of larger issues. This is important
   because we
   have a long tradition of diversity in this Circuit and we are the First
   Circuit in history
   to have a woman as our circuit justice, Sandra Day O'Connor, a woman
   Chief
   Circuit Judge and a woman as our duly elected representative to the
   Judicial
   Conference U.S., Judith Keep.
   The Automation Committee under Judge Jim Ware is working very hard to
   make
   sure we have the hardware and software we need.
   I also want to thank Judge John Roll, who is completing his chair of
   the Circuit Jury
   Instructions Committee. Under his leadership, the committee is in the
   final stages of
   publishing the 2001 Edition of the Ninth Circuit Manual of Model Civil
   Jury
   Instructions, which should be available by late fall.
   All of this deals with court administration in a kind of macro sense.
   But what about
   the business of actually getting the cases decided? We cannot measure
   the quality of
   decisions very well, so we often use the Supreme Court as a measure.
   The Supreme
   Court actually agreed with the Ninth Circuit in almost a third of the
   cases the
   Supreme Court took up this year, but the court still disagreed with us
   two thirds of
   the time, so we continue to do our job of keeping the Supreme Court on
   its toes.
   In both the district courts and the Court of Appeals, we are working
   hard to keep on
   top of the case load. Litigants should not have to bear undue delay in
   district court to
   get a final decision and then wait years for a hearing on appeal to the
   circuit. In the
   district courts, the chief district judges, to their enormous credit,
   instituted a program
   of reporting on the status of cases that are growing a little long in
   the tooth -- a
   reporting system similar to what is done in the court of appeals. The
   court of appeals
   itself, within the last month, adopted a program formulated by a
   committee chaired
   by Judge Sid Thomas of Montana, that program, barring unforseen floods
   of
   litigation, should bring us absolutely current with all our cases
   within two years. I am
   very proud of the court for doing that. It will mean a little more work
   for us in the
   short run, but an enormous benefit for everyone involved in the system
   in the long
   run.
   The magistrate judges under the leadership of Liz Laporte perform
   invaluable
   services throughout the circuit because of their skill and expertise in
   a variety of
   areas. They have also kept me on top of what is going on within
   administrative
   agencies that can affect what cases come out of the agency pipelines
   and into our
   courts. We thank them all.
   The bankruptcy courts are functioning well, with the leadership of
   Chief Judge
   Donald MacDonald as chair of the conference of chief bankruptcy judges.
   The
   highlight or low light of the year was PG&E's filing in the northern
   district with more
   than 160,000 creditors and almost $9 billion in debt. Since our last
   conference,
   eleven bankruptcy judges have been reappointed by the Court of Appeals.
   So those are some of the many happenings within our courts and problems
   that we
   are tackling through our own initiatives.
   But there is much that needs to be done where we need help. There are
   still three
   vacancies on the court of appeals and 16 in the district courts. We
   need new
   judgeships, particularly in the border districts of southern California
   and Arizona, as
   well as in the Central and Eastern District of California, and on the
   circuit.
   Our great strength in this circuit over the years has been the ties
   that link the courts
   and the bar. This year, our Senior Advisory Board became the advisory
   board
   because the lawyers seem to be getting younger. Lawyers serve on the
   rules and
   internal procedures committees of every district and the circuit. They
   help decide
   how we spend our admission fees, take part in judicial education, speak
   for our
   needs to congress and the executive branch, as well as being endlessly
   creative in the
   presentation of difficult legal issues. We are delighted so many are
   here.
   I conclude with the wish that you all enjoy the conference, watch and
   listen to the
   great presentations that will follow, talk to the PICO Communication
   Committee
   members and above all -- lawyers and judges -- talk to each other.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [0.377C?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
   [0.4194?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
   [0.4B2E?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]
