http://www.ita.doc.gov/media/index.html

   Export.gov logo and link to Export.gov ITA Office of Public Affairs
                                          [home.gif]
            ____________________          Go

 Press Releases

               Speeches

                       Trade Statistics

                                       Official Bios

                                                    Publications

                                                                Import Decisions



   Key Links


                               ITA in the News

   Trade Development (Industries)
   Commercial Service (Countries)
   Import Administration
   Market Access and Compliance
   Staff Contact Information
   Industry Information
   Country Information
   Export America
   Trade Information Center
   Trade Agreements Compliance
   Monthly Trade Update
   Cross-cutting Programs
   State Export Data
   Metropolitan Area Export Data
   Country Commercial Guides
   Export Assistance Centers, U.S.

   Contacts

   Email us




   Headline Issues




Trade Compliance Web Site is Redesigned for Easier Access (Statement)
(January 9, 2002)

Statement by Commerce Secretary Don Evans on Taiwan’s Entry
Into the World Trade Organization (Statement) (January 2, 2002)

Steel Imports for November 2001 Decreased 10.2 Percent from October 2001
(Fact Sheet) (Data Tables) (December 27, 2001)

Steel Meetings in Paris Make Progress (Press Release) (December 19, 2001)

Statement by Under Secretary for International Trade Grant Aldonas on OECD
steel meetings (Press Release) (December 17, 2001) (Steel Report Data Table)

Preliminary Affirmative Antidumping Duty Determination: Individually Quick
Frozen Red Raspberries from Chile (Fact Sheet) (December 21, 2001)

Preliminary Determinations of Sales at Less Than Fair Value and Postponement
of Final Determinations: Structural Steel Beams from the People's Republic of
China, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Russia, South Africa, Spain, and Taiwan
Fact Sheet (December 20, 2001)

Final Determination: Low Enriched Uranium for France, Germany, the
Netherlands, and the United Kingdom Fact Sheet (December 14, 2001)

Statement by Secretary of Commerce Don Evans on the Passage of Trade
Promotion Authority (Press Release) (December 6, 2001)

U.S. Government Seeks U.S. Private Sector Members for U.S.-Japan Private
Sector/Government Commission Regulatory Notice (December 4, 2001)

U.S. Department of Commerce Teams Up with Runaware to Offer IT Management
Planning Software Online Press Release (December 3, 2001)

   For more press releases... Click Here or use Search box at upper right
   corner.

                               [aldonas3.jpg]
            Under Secretary of International Trade Grant Aldonas
                             (View biography) or
     (Click to download) printable .TIF or high resolution EPS version)



   Commerce-wide International Trade Issues

   Statement by Commerce Secretary Don Evans on Today's International
   Trade Numbers— Washington, DC, November 20, 2001- Declines in imports
   and exports mean increased pressure on family budgets, workers and
   businesses. The President has shown leadership laying out an economic
   stimulus plan that protects workers, creates jobs and provides
   incentives for business to invest in our economy. Today's numbers
   should give the Senate leadership incentive to act. (see full
   statement) (Source: DOC Office of Public Affairs)

   Secretary Evans Convenes Meeting of Cabinet Secretaries to Address
   Travel and Tourism Industry Recovery Efforts — Washington, DC, October
   29, 2001— U.S. Secretary of Commerce Don Evans today convened and
   chaired a meeting of the Tourism Policy Council (TPC) to address the
   continuing impact of September 11th on the American travel and tourism
   industry. Joining him were the Secretaries of Transportation, Interior,
   Labor, Housing and Urban Development, as well as senior-level
   representatives from select executive agencies and departments. (see
   full statement)

   Meeting of Commerce Secretary Don Evans and Canada's Trade Minister
   Pierre
   Pettigrew — Washington, DC, September 10 - Commerce Secretary Don Evans
   and Canada's Trade Minister Pierre Pettigrew today (Sept. 10) met to
   discuss a number of important bilateral trade issues, including
   softwood lumber. Photos. (Source: DOC Office of Public Affairs)

   Commerce Launches Web Survey on Information Technology Education and
   Training Programs — Washington, DC, September 10 - The U.S. Department
   of Commerce's Technology Administration unveiled today an online survey
   (www.ta.doc.gov/ittraining) to gather views and experiences of people
   across the nation on high-tech training programs. The survey will
   solicit the opinions of employers, information technology (IT) workers,
   educators, trainers, and representatives of state and local government
   agencies and public-private partnerships working to address the
   nation's demand for IT workers. This survey poses a unique set of
   questions for comment by each of these stakeholder groups. Press
   Release. (Source: DOC Office of Public Affairs)

   This page was last updated by C. Churches on 01-02-02.  If you have
   questions or comments about this site please click here.

    Contact Us    About ITA    ITA Site Map    FAQs    Privacy Statement
      U.S. Department of Commerce    International Trade Administration
