http://www.orleanscdc.gov

   CDC Index:

   CDC Home

   City Court

   Civil Sheriff

   Clerk of Court

   Conveyance Ofc

   Courts & Sources

   Court Crier

   Duty Judge

   Evictions

   Filing

   Filing Fees

   Floor Plan

   Forms

   General Info

   Holidays

   Judges

   Jury Info

   Legal Interest

   Map

   Mortgage Ofc

   Notarial Archives

   Remote Access

   Who to Contact

   Search Site

                                  CDC logo

     Civil District Court is a court of general civil jurisdiction. In
     every Louisiana Parish except Orleans there is one District Court
     with both Civil and Criminal jurisdiction. In Orleans Parish, the
     Civil and Criminal District Courts are legally distinct and located
     in separate buildings. The Clerk of Civil District Court is located
     on the 4th floor of 421 Loyola Avenue. All suits, pleadings,
     exhibits, wills, promissory notes, etc. pertaining to actions
     initiated or pending in the Civil District Court are filed with the
     Clerk of Civil District Court.

     The Civil Sheriff's Office handles all matters pertaining to service
     of process and judicial sales of matters filed with the Civil
     District Court for the Parish of Orleans, among its other duties.
     The Civil Sheriff's Office operates independant of the Clerk of
     Civil District Court.

     In Orleans Parish, the Mortgage Office, Conveyance Office, and
     Notarial Archives are not part of the office of the Clerk of Court.
     Documents that are to be recorded in the Mortgage or Conveyance
     records for Orleans Parish must often first be filed with Notarial
     Archives. Information about these offices can be found on this
     website.

     This website is also the home for New Orleans City Courts: First
     City Court, and Second City Court (Algiers). Small Claims Court is a
     part of the City Court system. The Constables of First and Second
     City Court handle service of process and judicial sales of all
     matters pertaining to City Court.

     Juvenile Court for the Parish of Orleans is also a separate office,
     although it is also located in the Civil Courts Building.
     Information about Juvenile Court can also be found here.

     For information about accessing our records online, see our Remote
     Access Service.

                                 [line9.gif]

                               [penemail.gif]

    Questions or comments about our website? Write us: faun@acadiacom.net


    This site was last updated on January 30, 2002.
    Copyright © 1997-2001 Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans
    http://www.orleanscdc.gov

                                 [id=182500]

                                 [line9.gif]

               The CDC website was designed by Faun Fenderson
