http://www.state.gov/documents/415.htm

    globe                                             U.S. Department of State
          lines
                                   Home contact us FOIA Privacy Notice Archive

          About the State Department Press and Public Affairs Travel and Living
          Abroad
          Countries and Regions International Topics and Issues History,
          Education and Culture
          Business Center Other Services Employment

   [Print Friendly Version]


      Privacy and Computer Fraud and Abuse Acts Notices

         Privacy Act Notice
         For site management, information is collected for statistical purposes.
         The Department of State Web Site uses software programs to create
         summary statistics for such purposes as assessing what information is
         of most and least interest or identifying system performance or problem
         areas. The following is the type of information collected about your
         visit to the web site: the name of the Internet domain from which you
         access State Department web sites (for example, "aol.com" if you are
         connecting from America Online) and the date and time you access our
         site. If you choose to provide us with personal information in an email
         message, we use it only to respond to your email.

         For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
         available to all users, the State Department uses software programs to
         monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or
         change information or otherwise cause damage. Unauthorized attempts to
         upload information or change information on this service are strictly
         prohibited and may be punishable under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act
         of 1986. Information also may be used for authorized law enforcement
         investigations. Except for the above purposes, no other attempts are
         made to identify individual users or their usage habits.

         Computer Fraud and Abuse Act
         Unauthorized attempts to upload information and/or change information
         on these web sites are strictly prohibited and are subject to
         prosecution under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and Title 18
         U.S.C. Sec.1001 and 1030.

         For More Information

           Public Information, Room 5827
           Bureau of Public Affairs
           U.S. State Department
           Washington, D.C. 20520-6810
           202-647-6575
           AskPublicAffairs@state.gov

         [End]

   This site is managed by the Bureau of Public Affairs, U.S. Department
   of State. External links to other Internet sites should not be
   construed as an endorsement of the views contained therein.
