http://www.oc.ca.gov/da/DA.htm

        [Dabann.gif]
        [ribbon.gif]

     [Tony3.jpg] The Office of the District Attorney is the largest law
     firm based in Orange County. The Office represents the People of the
     State of California in some civil and in all criminal proceedings,
     and serves the court and criminal justice system, children in need
     of financial support, and the Orange County Grand Jury.

     The mission of the Office of the District Attorney Of Orange County
     is to enhance public safety and welfare and create a sense of
     security in the community through the vigorous enforcement of
     criminal and civil laws in a just, honest, efficient and ethical
     manner.

     The attorneys of the Office work with investigative law enforcement
     personnel and legal clerical support to prosecute approximately
     15,000 adults for felony crimes and 55,000 for misdemeanor offenses.
     Another 10,000 juvenile petitions for wardship are processed by
     juvenile and gang prosecutors. Office personnel are located in six
     Justice Centers (Central, Harbor, North, South, West and Juvenile)
     throughout the County.

     The casework personnel of the Family Support Division (FSD) collect
     over $100 million in child support payments from non-custodial
     parents each year. The Division has 145,000 cases (children) which
     may need to have non-custodial parents located, paternity
     established, or support orders created and enforced. The FSD works
     closely with the Social Services Agency, particularly in the area of
     welfare reform.

     The Office also employs Administrative Services staff who address
     the financial services, facilities management, human resources and
     information systems support needs of the Office.


                             Mailing Address:
                    Tony Rackauckas, District Attorney
                           401 Civic Center Dr.
                                P.O.Box 808
                       Santa Ana, California  92702
                            Phone: 714-834-3600

                                 Last updated 2/18/00

                   Questions about the site? Contact the Webmaster -
                               swood@da.co.orange.ca.us
