http://y2k.senate.gov/documents/final.pdf

   The United States Senate Special Committee on the Year 2000 Technology
   Problem Senator Robert F. Bennett, Chairman Senator Christopher J.
   Dodd, Vice-Chairman Y2K Aftermath  Crisis Averted Final Committee
   Report Summary of Committee Findings FEBRUARY 29, 2000 MEMBERS Robert
   F. Bennett, UT, Chairman Christopher J. Dodd, CT, Vice-Chairman Jon
   Kyl, AZ Daniel Patrick Moynihan, NY Gordon Smith, OR John Edwards, NC
   Richard G. Lugar, IN Robert C. Byrd, WV, Ex Officio Ted Stevens, AK, Ex
   Officio STAFF Robert Cresanti , Staff Director T.M. (Wilke) Green,
   Minority Staff Director John B. Stephenson, Deputy Staff Director
   Thomas J. Bello, Professional Staff Tania L. Calhoun, Committee Counsel
   James P. Dailey, Professional Staff Paul Hunter, Professional Staff
   Unice Lieberman, Minority Press Secretary Sara Jane MacKay, Legislative
   Correspondent Don Meyer, Press Secretary J. Paul Nicholas, Professional
   Staff Frank Reilly, Professional Staff Noelle Busk Ringel, Archivist
   Amber Sechrist, Clerk Ronald L. Spear, Professional Staff Deborah
   Steward, GPO Representative S. Prt. 106-XX The United States Senate
   Special Committee on the Year 2000 Technology Problem Senator Robert F.
   Bennett, Chairman Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Vice-Chairman Y2K
   Aftermath  Crisis Averted Final Committee Report SUMMARY OF COMMITTEE
   FINDING FEBRUARY 29, 2000 February 29, 2000 Dear Colleague: Having
   fulfilled its oversight and fact-finding mission following the world's
   suc- cessful navigation of the millennium date change, the U.S. Senate
   Special Com- mittee on the Year 2000 Technology Problem will disband on
   February 29, 2000, in accordance with its charter. Today, we issue the
   Committee's final report. This report provides the best in- formation
   available on the occurrence of Y2K glitches in the United States and
   abroad. While problems will continue to appear throughout the year,
   most documented domestic Y2K-related events have thus far been minor,
   localized, and short-lived. Internationally, there have been fewer
   problems than predicted. The report also discusses lessons learned and
   benefits derived from Y2K. Minor consequences aside, Y2K has spurred
   the modernization of our nation's technol- ogy base and positioned it
   for continued economic growth. In addition, the Y2K readiness
   experience has taught us valuable lessons about the nation's techno-
   logical dependencies, interconnections, and vulnerabilities. These
   lessons will prove invaluable as Congress examines new policies
   addressing critical infra- structure protection and future information
   technology issues. Robert F. Bennett Christopher J. Dodd Chairman Vice
   Chairman {NOTE: FORMAL RELEASE INCLUDES THE SIGNATURES OF ALL COMMITTEE
   MEMBERS} TABLE of CONTENTS Page Overview 3 The Results of Y2K 7 Day One
   Preparation/Performance 7 Summary of Y2K Problems 9 The Costs of Y2K 11
   Is the Crisis Over? Prognosis for the Months Ahead 12 The Committee's
   Contributions 13 Lessons Learned/Benefits Derived from Y2K 17
   Modernized Technology Base and Management Efficiency 17 Better
   Communication Networks and Public/Private Partnerships 18 Greater
   Awareness of IT Dependencies & Security Risks 20 What's Next/How Do We
   Capitalize on Y2K? 23 Maintain/Enhance Y2K Networks and Public/Private
   Partnerships 23 Leverage Y2K Lessons to Improve Infrastructure
   Protection 24 Congressional Role in Infrastructure Protection 25
   APPENDICES Appendix I  Committee Enabling Legislation 27 Appendix II
   Summary of Y2K Glitches by Sector 37 Appendix III  Committee Hearings
   51 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM 1 This
   page left intentionally blank. (p.2) SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE
   YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM 1 Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL
   COMMITTEE REPORT OVERVIEW Since its April 1998 inception, the tive for
   corporations or countries to U.S. Senate Special Committee on publicly
   report problems. Instead, the Year 2000 Technology (Y2K) they will
   simply fix these problems Problem has pursued the following and
   continue their operations. goals: (1) to study the Y2K problem's
   potential impact on all levels of gov- The U.S. spent an estimated $100
   ernment and the private sector- billion ($8.5 billion within the
   federal both in the U.S. and abroad; (2) to government alone) on the
   Y2K make findings of fact and serve as a problem, and the positive
   results repository for accurate Y2K informa- domestically were not
   unexpected. tion; (3) to increase awareness about Several factors
   contributed to a rela- the Y2K problem; and (4) to make tively
   uneventful Y2K rollover. In recommendations regarding new addition to
   the unprecedented level legislation and existing laws to in- of effort
   undertaken by most organi- centivize Y2K preparation. Having zations,
   the sharing of information, fulfilled these objectives, the Com- focus
   on supplier interrelationships, mittee will disband on February 29, and
   attention to contingency plan- 1999, in accordance with its charter.
   ning all contributed to a smooth tran- sition. Committee hearings and
   work The Committee's final report is com- in late 1999 also revealed a
   signifi- prised of three sections. The first cantly lower failure rate
   than pre- describes how well the nation and dicted for embedded chips.
   the world transitioned to the Year 2000, including examples of reported
   It is the Committee's judgment that computer problems. The second the
   level of effort was justified and section describes lessons learned the
   expenditure of funds was indeed and benefits derived from Y2K. Fi-
   necessary. Testimony and available nally, the third section examines
   how research during 1998 and early 1999 these benefits and lessons
   might be convinced the Committee that the used to better address future
   infor- Y2K threat was very real, and that mation technology (IT)
   challenges. the risks and consequences of inac- tion were too dire to
   justify a lesser Hundreds of computer problems effort. Even considering
   the enor- have been reported since January 1, mous amount of time and
   money 2000, but most have been quickly spent on Y2K, the level of
   success is corrected and none have caused se- still remarkable
   considering that the rious disruptions. While Appendix II U.S.-with
   one-fourth of the world's of this report includes examples of computer
   assets-is the most tech- computer problems that have oc- nologically
   dependent nation on curred since the date change, the full earth.
   extent of Y2K problems will probably never be known. There is no incen-
   3 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K
   AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT While the positive
   results of domestic Also during 2000 and beyond, gov- Y2K preparation
   were not unex- ernment and private sector organi- pected, the low level
   of disruption zations must undertake permanent internationally was
   somewhat sur- software fixes where temporary prising. Several factors
   may have patches were utilized. Organizations contributed to inaccurate
   predictions may need to address non-mission and better-than-expected
   results critical systems where repairs were abroad. Among these were
   (1) the postponed. Internationally, most difficulty in obtaining
   accurate and fixes were temporary clock rollbacks current information
   about the tech- that must be fixed permanently at nology dependencies
   and Y2K pre- some point. paredness levels of other countries; (2) the
   underestimation of the In addition to avoiding major Y2K amount of
   remediation that actually problems, enduring lessons have occurred in
   the last two months of been learned and benefits derived 1999; (3) the
   underestimation of the from the remediation experience. economic
   influence of multinational Most significantly, the IT infrastruc-
   corporations on the preparedness of ture and mechanisms for more ef-
   their host countries; and (4) the fact fectively managing it have been
   that contingency plans for countries modernized. Also, Y2K has caused
   behind in Y2K remediation worked a heightened level of knowledge better
   than expected. among executive-level managers as to the importance and
   vulnerabilities In addition, in many cases, infra- of information
   technology. Critical structure entities and companies infrastructure
   protection and other IT switched to manual operations issues now rank
   higher among the and/or had additional personnel on mission priorities
   of corporate and standby during the rollover. This ac- government
   executives. Finally, new tion allowed problems to be quickly
   public/private partnerships and more addressed and, as a result, pre-
   effective avenues of communica- vented more failures from occurring.
   tion-domestically and internation- ally-have been created that will be
   Not all Y2K problems, however, were beneficial in addressing future IT
   expected to occur and be resolved in challenges. the first few weeks or
   months fol- lowing January 1, 2000. In addition The Committee believes
   that im- to vulnerabilities surrounding Febru- proving critical
   infrastructure protec- ary 29, several problems may yet tion will be
   the next major challenge occur as quarterly and annual busi- to the IT
   community. Hacking, cyber ness cycles continue. The Commit-
   theft/terrorism and information war- tee expects continued reports of
   mi- fare have the potential to negatively nor nuisances throughout
   2000, but impact e-commerce and impede no major problems. overall
   economic growth. 4 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY
   PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Funding
   for national infrastructure The President's Council on Year protection
   is currently spread over 15 2000 Conversion, chaired by Special
   agencies overseen by nine congres- Assistant to the President John Ko-
   sional committees. This presents skinen, performed a valuable service
   numerous challenges to effective to the nation by working to guarantee
   congressional oversight and policy the functioning of vital public
   serv- initiatives. The Senate must exam- ices. Mr. Koskinen effectively
   formed ine the congressional structure and coalitions between the
   public and its efficacy for addressing critical in- private sectors,
   and initiated and frastructure protection and future IT monitored Y2K
   preparation among issues. federal, state, and local govern- ments, as
   well as different infra- * * * * structure sectors and industries. He
   also kept Congress and Many thousands of people "THERE ARE MANY the
   public informed with deserve credit for the Y2K INDIVIDUALS WHO regard
   to progress. success story. A few DESERVE A GREAT deserve special
   recognition. DEAL OF CREDIT FOR SEC Chairman Arthur THE Y2K SUCCESS
   Levitt was influential in In 1996, Senator Daniel STORY-PAT fostering
   cooperation Patrick Moynihan MOYNIHAN, ALAN among private industry
   commissioned a Congres- GREENSPAN, JOHN and the financial services
   sional Research Study of KOSKINEN, ARTHUR sector. In response to Y2K's
   potential impact. He LEVITT, AND Senator Bennett's also contacted
   President STEPHEN HORN- introduction of S.1518, the Clinton to urge the
   JUST TO NAME A SEC clarified federal appointment of a FEW" securities
   disclosure law presidential aide to direct to remind municipal federal
   Y2K efforts. -- SENATOR securities issuers, public BENNETT companies,
   investment Federal Reserve Chairman advisers, and investment Alan
   Greenspan offered valuable as- companies that anti-fraud provisions
   sessments with regard to Y2K and included Y2K disclosure. The SEC its
   potential impact on investors and also took action against broker- the
   U.S. economy. His assessments dealers who failed to report Year warded
   off potentially destructive 2000 readiness, and issued a report
   Y2K-related behavior such as in- on the Y2K preparedness of publicly
   ventory stockpiling and divestment in traded companies. U.S. markets.
   He also drew atten- tion to the high level of preparedness Congressman
   Stephen Horn, Chair- in private industry and in U.S. mar- man of the
   Government Reform kets, helping to avoid a Y2K-induced Subcommittee on
   Government Man- economic downturn. agement, Information and Technol-
   ogy, led oversight efforts in the U.S. House of Representatives regard-
   5 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K
   AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT ing federal government
   prepared- preparedness, Congressman Horn ness. Through numerous
   hearings exercised effective oversight of fed- and quarterly report
   cards on federal eral agencies. 6 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR
   2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE
   REPORT THE RESULTS OF Y2K This section assesses the effective- systems
   as the date roll-over oc- ness of the Y2K Information Coordi- curred,
   and to provide immediate on- nation Center (ICC) and other "Day premise
   technical assistance in the One" activities. It also includes a event
   of failures. In many cases, summary of Y2K problems com- trade
   associations established com- prised of the best information avail-
   mand centers to gather information able in the U.S. and abroad. While
   about the status of critical infra- problems will continue to appear
   structures within a specific industry. throughout the year, documented
   Y2K-related events in the U.S. have The ICC's structure linked the Day
   so far been minor, localized, and One Preparation activities of the
   fed- short-lived. Internationally, there eral government and those of
   private have been fewer problems than pre- industry. In essence, the
   same dicted. mechanism established by the President's Council to track
   progress on Y2K preparedness throughout DAY ONE PREPARATION/ 1998 and
   1999 served as the back- PERFORMANCE bone of a Day One Preparation plan
   that was international in scope. In- "Day One Preparation" refers to
   the dustry sector working groups already operational plans devised at
   all lev- established by the President's Coun- els of government and
   many private cil provided the foundation for large- organizations to
   manage the January scale Day One Preparation plans for 1, 2000
   date-change transition. Day the ICC. (The structure and organi- One
   Preparation efforts represented zation of the President's Council and
   the largest simultaneous mobilization the ICC were discussed in detail
   in of resources in anticipation of a po- the Committee's first two
   reports.) tential disaster or emergency. Gov- ernmental Day One
   Preparation in- Several days prior to and after the cluded the ICC's
   establishment of a date transition, Committee staff broad
   communications and reporting manned an operational desk at the network,
   and the staffing of emer- ICC and utilized the Information gency
   operations centers by the Collection and Reporting System Federal
   Emergency Management (ICRS), the ICC's primary data col- Administration
   (FEMA) and emer- lection system. The ICRS allowed gency management
   agencies at mu- the user to review the status of each nicipal, county,
   and state levels. sector, including government serv- ices, finance,
   transportation, power In private industry, Day One Prepa- and water
   utilities, telecommunica- ration typically involved increased tions,
   health care, and business. An staffing of business and industry lo-
   "exception-based" three-tiered re- cations to both monitor and test key
   porting system was used whereby 7 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR
   2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE
   REPORT contributors reported incidents hav- date-change transition. The
   imme- ing a potential impact on the pre- diate on-site presence of
   "command- sumed "green" or normal operating level" officials could have
   served to status of their sectors. streamline communications efforts if
   a national crisis had occurred. The Incidents bearing any significant
   im- ICC's effective degree of coordina- pact on any sector would have
   re- tion among decision-makers from a sulted in a change of rating from
   broad variety of both public and pri- "green" to "yellow" (cautionary)
   or vate agencies was a significant ac- "red" (indicating significant
   disrup- complishment. Unlike law enforce- tion). John Koskinen, Chair
   of the ment, military, and intelligence agen- President's Council,
   provided regular cies, other entities providing infor- press briefings
   on reported incidents mation to the ICC were not opera- from the ICC
   throughout the week tionally oriented and did not typically prior to
   and following the date- provide "real time" incident reporting. change
   transition. Transcripts of While the need to establish a re- these
   briefings are available on the porting network that could feed in-
   President's Council's/ICC web page formation into the ICC presented a
   at www.y2k.gov. unique challenge to some agencies, this function was
   effectively per- ICC staffing consisted of a central formed.
   administrative staff, representatives of the various executive branch
   Y2K was the first instance during agencies, and contractors who pro-
   which emergency managers in all 50 vided data systems support. The
   states and the U.S. territories were President's Council estimated that
   simultaneously operational and in approximately 175 to 200 people
   direct communication with FEMA in staffed the ICC. anticipation of a
   single-source dis- aster or hazard. Despite the late start in
   organizing the ICC, and despite problems expe- FEMA's Y2K preparedness
   activities rienced during the December 1999 had a broad impact on Day
   One ICRS system exercise phase, the Preparation efforts at all levels
   of ICC appears to have successfully government, and on individual pre-
   accomplished its mission related to paredness. FEMA used approxi- Day
   One Preparation. Several mately 800 employees during the strong points
   in the ICC's operations rollover, with personnel assigned to are worthy
   of note. Although it was its Emergency Support Team at expressly not
   intended to serve as a headquarters, the Mount Weather decision-making
   body, on-site staff- Emergency Assistance Center, ing of the ICC
   included many high- FEMA's ten regional operational of- ranking
   officials from the various fices, its regional operations centers,
   federal agencies. This would have state liaisons, and the ICC. been of
   great benefit had any major crisis developed as a result of the Many
   benefits were realized as a re- 8 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR
   2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE
   REPORT sult of Day One Preparedness activi- part of Y2K Day One
   Preparations, ties in the emergency management and the pre-activation
   of emergency community: operations centers across the nation, would
   have dramatically increased * Existing emergency management the
   nation's ability to respond. systems were tested and stressed in
   response to a unique SUMMARY OF Y2K hazard; PROBLEMS * Increased
   attention was given to emergency preparedness at the While hundreds of
   computer prob- individual and organizational lev- lems have been
   reported since els; January 1, 2000, most have been quickly corrected
   and none have * Disaster plans were revised and caused serious
   disruptions. Be- updated in many local communi- cause there is no
   incentive for corpo- ties and states; rations or countries to openly
   report problems, the full extent of Y2K's * Relationships between
   various impact may never be known. In- Federal Response Plan (FRP)
   deed, it is interesting to note that of- agencies were strengthened;
   ficial government reports from around the world report far fewer in- *
   The value of the FRP to a broad cidents than reported by news serv-
   range of potential disasters was ices. For example, 32 countries in-
   reinforced; cluding Australia, Brazil, Great Brit- ain, Canada,
   Germany, and Norway * The application of the ICC's in- reported no
   incidents on the official frastructure failure reporting sys-
   International Y2K Cooperation Cen- tem is being evaluated by FEMA ter's
   website despite the fact that and the individual states; and many
   incidents were reported in these countries by reliable news * Emergency
   services improved services. their abilities to function if af- fected
   by major emergencies or Examples of domestic problems disasters. have
   included Medicare payment delays, double-billing by some credit The
   importance of Day One Prepar- card companies, degradation of a edness
   was reinforced in the months spy satellite system, 911 problems in
   approaching the date transition as several localities, and a nuclear
   law enforcement and intelligence weapons plant system anomaly. In-
   concerns grew about the potential for ternational events included non-
   Y2K/millennium-focused violence by safety-related problems at a nuclear
   domestic extremists and foreign ter- power plant, a Hong Kong Futures
   rorists. Had any large-scale events Exchange outage, and a variety of
   occurred, the communications net- biomedical device glitches. Despite
   works initiated by organizations as 9 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE
   YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL
   COMMITTEE REPORT these incidents, no major problems spite the expense,
   the success of were experienced in the U.S. or domestic Y2K preparation
   is remark- worldwide during the millennium date able, considering that
   the U.S.-with change. Additional examples of re- one-fourth of the
   world's computer ported computer problems are in- assets-is the most
   technologically cluded in Appendix II. While the dependent nation on
   earth. Committee was unable to verify these reports first-hand, the
   Appen- While the positive results of domestic dix includes only those
   reports from Y2K preparation were not unex- sources considered
   reliable. pected, the low level of disruption internationally was
   somewhat sur- The U.S. spent an estimated $100 prising. The following
   factors may billion ($8.5 billion within the federal have contributed
   to inaccurate pre- government alone) on the Y2K dictions. problem, and
   the positive results domestically were not unexpected. First, despite
   the efforts of the United Several factors contributed to a rela-
   Nations, World Bank, the Interna- tively uneventful Y2K rollover. In
   tional Y2K Cooperation Center and addition to the unprecedented level
   others, it was difficult to obtain accu- of effort undertaken by most
   public rate and current information about and private organizations,
   informa- the technological dependencies and tion sharing, a focus on
   supplier in- Y2K preparedness of other coun- terrelationships, and
   attention to tries. The Y2K experience revealed contingency planning
   all contributed that little is known about the level of to a smooth
   transition. automation in other countries' infra- structures, such as
   electric power or Committee hearings also revealed a
   telecommunications. significantly lower failure rate than predicted for
   embedded chips. Second, the amount of remediation Analysis of testing
   during the last occurring in the last two months of quarter of 1999
   predicted an embed- 1999 may have been underesti- ded chip failure rate
   of .001%, rather mated. Countries that delayed Y2K than the 2-3%
   failure rate projected remediation greatly benefited from in late 1998
   and early 1999. the lessons learned by countries leading the world in
   Y2K compliance, In the Committee's judgment, the allowing laggard
   countries to make level of effort was justified, and the Y2K repairs
   more quickly and effi- expenditures of the public and pri- ciently than
   previously thought pos- vate sectors were indeed necessary. sible. In
   addition, many countries Testimony and available research and
   organizations simply rolled back during 1998 and early 1999 con-
   computer clocks, which allows the vinced the Committee that the Y2K
   temporary claim of compliance but threat was real, and that the risks
   fails to address long-term date de- and consequences of inaction were
   pendency problems. too dire to justify a lesser effort. De- 10 SENATE
   SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH
   CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Third, the economic influence of
   Preparations to avoid and/or mitigate multinational corporations was
   un- Y2K-related problems proved to be derestimated. Global corporations
   one of the most complex and vast aggressively addressed the Y2K
   management challenges in recent problem at international facilities,
   history. From roughly 1995-1999, and had a profound influence on the
   private and public organizations, preparedness of host countries and
   both domestically and internationally, their attendant infrastructures.
   mobilized huge resources to address Y2K. Although no universal cost-
   Fourth, many countries began ad- estimating processes were agreed
   dressing theY2K problem so late that upon, many organizations estimated
   contingency planning was their only cost of Y2K in terms of lines of
   code option. In many cases, infrastructure to be assessed, remediated,
   and entities and companies switched to tested. One dollar per line of
   code manual operations and/or had addi- was one widely-used cost
   estimate, tional personnel on standby during but the worldwide cost of
   preparing the rollover. This allowed problems for Y2K may never be
   known. to be quickly addressed and may have prevented more failures
   from However, the Office of Management occurring. and Budget estimated
   that federal government Y2K spending reached $8.34 billion; the
   Commerce De- partment estimated that U.S. gov- ernment and businesses
   spent about $100 billion; and a journalist for THE COSTS OF Y2K
   Newsweek estimated global Y2K Y2K Emergency Supplemental Funds $700,000
   $650,000 $600,000 $550,000 $500,000 Agriculture Commerce $450,000
   Health and Human Services $400,000 Interior Justice $350,000 State
   $300,000 Transportation $250,000 Treasury (Thousands of Dollars)
   General Services Administration $200,000 District of Columbia $150,000
   $100,000 $50,000 $0 Agency/Bureau 11 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE
   YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL
   COMMITTEE REPORT spending at $500 billion.1 IS THE CRISIS OVER?
   PROGNOSIS Congress appropriated $3.35 billion FOR THE MONTHS AHEAD in
   Y2K emergency supplemental funding: $1.1 billion for the DOD and Not
   all Y2K problems were expected $2.25 billion for non-defense de- to
   occur and be resolved in the first partments and agencies. Of the non-
   few weeks or months following defense emergency supplemental January 1,
   2000. In addition to vul- spending, the top 10 agen- nerabilities
   surrounding February 29, cies/departments receiving funds are several
   problems may yet occur as depicted in the chart above. quarterly and
   annual business cycles continue. The Gartner Group esti- Most analysts
   agree that Y2K mated that peak Y2K problem peri- spending was higher
   per capita in ods would be in mid-2000, with some the U.S. than in
   other industrialized problems lingering into 2003. The countries such
   as Italy, Spain, and Committee also expects continued Russia.2 Many
   argue, however, that reports of minor nuisances through- the U.S. is
   far more computerized out 2000, but no major problems. than those
   countries. U.S. systems are also more interconnected and Pre- and
   post-Y2K analysis has in- complex than in most other coun- cluded
   hypotheses regarding the tries, leading to a higher cost for Y2K
   potential for future Y2K problems. remediation here at home. Future
   date-related problems have been predicted for computer systems Finally,
   countries that started Y2K that may not recognize 2000 as a remediation
   later than the U.S. had leap year. Another potential problem the
   benefit of U.S.-developed diag- has been predicted for 2038, when
   nostic software tools, experience, timers in some UNIX operating sys-
   and access to public information tems roll over much like the GPS about
   the compliance process. systems clocks did in August 1999. The
   Committee's investigation con- cludes that, given the evolution of the
   Y2K scenario since December 31, 1999, there will be few lingering and
   long-term effects from Y2K. Or- ganizations working on the problem 1In
   addition, the Gartner Group estimated that the were generally well
   aware of poten- U.S. spent $150-$225 billion. International Data tial
   glitches associated with the leap Corporation's Project Magellan
   estimated costs at $320 billion worldwide, $134 billion of which year,
   and were actively preparing for was spent by the U.S. February 29,
   2000. The U.S. Navy, 2 for example, demonstrated to Com- Some analysts
   also believe that other industri- alized countries, such as the United
   Kingdom, mittee staff a successful rollover drill Canada, Denmark, and
   the Netherlands, spent during naval battle group operations equivalent
   amounts per capita to the U.S. in 1999. 12 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
   THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL
   COMMITTEE REPORT In addition, during 2000 and beyond, The year 2038 is
   not expected to government and private sector or- cause pervasive
   problems. The Y2K ganizations must undertake perma- problem was
   generated by a widely nent software fixes where temporary used
   programming practice, whereas patches were utilized. Organizations
   other problem dates are associated may need to address non-mission with
   limitations of software systems. critical systems where repairs were
   Also, the sensationalism associated postponed. Internationally, most
   with Y2K heightened awareness of fixes were temporary clock rollbacks
   these other dates, so it is much less that ultimately must be fixed
   perma- likely that future IT personnel will be nently. PROJECTED Y2K
   FAILURE TIMEFRAMES P Prree 11999988 11999988 11999999 22000000 22000011
   22000022 22000033 Worldwide System Failures Only a Portion of IT System
   Failures Will Occur at the Millennium Rollover Embedded Systems Spike
   Source: Gartner Group surprised by date-related problems. Software that
   was remediated with a The Committee thinks the most likely windowing
   approach or another scenario will be problems with soft- similar
   technique utilizing two digits ware that was not remediated at all for
   representing a year may en- for Y2K. These problems may show counter
   problems with the approach up in erroneous reports that are run of the
   "pivot year." A second prob- at fixed times in the business cycle. lem
   may occur with systems that ex- change year information in two-digit
   date formats but do not use the THE COMMITTEE'S same pivot year. In
   addition, it is CONTRIBUTIONS possible that remediated software will
   exhibit new problems. It is often Through tremendous efforts of the the
   case that fixing one section of public and private sectors, the U.S.
   software causes new problems to made a successful transition into the
   occur (by introducing new defects Year 2000. These efforts were pro-
   elsewhere in the system). pelled, in part, by a constant level of
   congressional attention to every 13 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE
   YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL
   COMMITTEE REPORT aspect of the Y2K problem. This tion of educating the
   public about the section summarizes the Committee's nature and scope of
   the Y2K prob- contributions to the nation's suc- lem, and the ongoing
   progress of cessful Y2K preparation effort.3 each sector. These
   numerous hearings kept pressure on the public The Committee's mandate
   was to and private sectors to remediate study the impact of the Y2K
   problem systems and to develop and imple- on the federal and state
   govern- ment contingency plans ensuring a ments and the private sector,
   and to successful Y2K event. make appropriate findings of fact and
   recommendations to the Congress.4 The Committee wrote hundreds of The
   Committee fulfilled this mandate letters to various public and private
   by becoming a repository of informa- entities to elicit information
   about tion about the Y2K problem in order Y2K preparedness and to
   encourage to focus public attention on the issue action. The letters
   also put these and spur action in the public and pri- entities on
   notice that the Congress vate sectors. The Committee ac- was exercising
   oversight with regard complished this goal through the use to Y2K. In
   the private sector, such of hearings, letters, regular interac- letters
   helped shift the focus on Y2K tion with public and private entities,
   from technical personnel to top man- reports, and legislative recommen-
   agement. This transition of respon- dations. sibility was a crucial
   factor behind the success of the Y2K rollover. The Committee conducted
   35 hear- (Many of these letters were repro- ings on a wide array of Y2K
   issues duced in Appendix II of the Commit- (see Appendix III). Each
   hearing tee's second report, "Investigating was designed to draw
   attention to a the Year 2000 Problem: The 100 Day particular aspect of
   the Y2K problem; Report.") build general knowledge with regard to
   particular economic sectors; and A crucial method of fact-finding was
   elicit action to ensure a smooth tran- the Committee's regular
   interaction sition into the Year 2000. Each with representatives of the
   major hearing also served the critical func- federal agencies and
   critical private sector entities. This contact allowed 3 the Committee
   to assess Y2K prog- The Committee acknowledges the contributions made
   by numerous other Senate and House ress in all sectors, encourage the
   committees. The Committee also thanks the free flow of information, and
   maintain General Accounting Office (GAO), the investiga- awareness of
   ongoing congressional tive arm of the Congress, for the valuable assis-
   tance it provided in the form of reports, testimony, oversight. and
   other studies. The Committee issued its first report, 4 S. Res. 208
   (105th Cong., 2nd Sess.): To estab- lish a special committee of the
   Senate to address "Investigating the Impact of the Year the year 2000
   technology problem, as amended 2000 Problem," in February 1999."5 by S.
   Res. 7 (106th Cong., 1st Sess.). The text of both resolutions can be
   found at Appendix II. 5 S. Prt. 106-10, Feb. 24, 1999. 14 SENATE
   SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH
   CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT That report was the federal
   govern- Another vital aspect of the Commit- ment's first comprehensive
   analysis tee's role was its bipartisan, coop- of the nature and scope
   of the Y2K erative approach toward a success- problem and the status of
   domestic ful Y2K rollover. The committee and preparations. The
   Committee issued its members worked closely with its second report,
   "Investigating the House committees and with the Year 2000 Problem: The
   100 Day President's Council on Year 2000 Report,"6 in September 1999.
   In ad- Conversion, as well as the federal dition to updating the first
   report, it agencies, private sector and interna- contained an extensive
   analysis of tional partners. The creation of suc- international Y2K
   readiness. Both cessful public/private partnerships reports provided
   the public with a re- may serve as a model in the devel- source for
   understanding the prob- opment of a national policy toward lem and
   assessing its potential im- protecting American high-tech infra- pact
   on the lives of American citizens structure. and industries. While the
   Committee was not granted legislative authority, it was tasked to
   provide legislative recom- mendations to the Congress, which it did on
   two occasions. First, Senator Bennett introduced the Senate bill that
   would eventually re- sult in the "Year 2000 Information and Readiness
   Disclosure Act," Pub. L. No. 105-271 (Oct. 19, 1998). This Act
   encouraged the disclosure and exchange of information about the Y2K
   problem by limiting the liability of companies that provided good-
   faith Y2K disclosures. Second, Senator Dodd was instru- mental in the
   passage of the "Y2K Act," Pub. L. No. 106-31 (July 20, 1999). This Act
   was intended to dis- courage the filing of frivolous law- suits and to
   encourage parties to re- solve Y2K problems prior to, and/or instead
   of, pursuing litigation. 6 S. Prt. 106-31, Sept. 22, 1999. 15 SENATE
   SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH
   CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT 16 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
   THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL
   COMMITTEE REPORT LESSONS LEARNED/BENEFITS DERIVED FROM Y2K Enduring
   lessons have been learned been forced to look critically at the and
   benefits derived as a result of role of IT assets and to manage Y2K.
   There now exists a more thor- them as mission-critical resources. ough
   understanding of IT-related Information systems, via strategic
   challenges, including effective quan- management, have graduated to the
   tification of IT problems and their boardroom. probable impact. There
   is also a higher awareness of the integral role While many analysts
   predicted that IT plays in business functions, and Y2k preparation
   would sap budgets the effort involved to effectively and productivity
   in 1998-1999, a manage ephemeral information and large percentage of
   Y2K spending high-tech organizational assets. was earmarked in existing
   IT budg- ets and productivity continued to in- As a result of Y2K, IT
   foundations crease. The Department of Com- and management mechanisms
   have merce stated in November 1999 that been modernized. Critical
   infra- "[s]ome of the Y2K spending may structure protection and other
   IT is- involve `shifting forward' new, pro- sues now rank higher among
   the ductive, software and hardware in- mission priorities of corporate
   and vestments which would have oc- government executives. In addition,
   curred eventually, offsetting to some new public/private partnerships
   and extent the drag on productivity."7 more effective avenues of
   communi- Given the cost overruns and delays cation-both domestically
   and inter- that typically plague IT projects, it is nationallyhave been
   created that significant that IT departments were will be beneficial in
   addressing future forced to adopt strict timelines and IT challenges.
   strategies for simultaneously fixing multiple systems. The Y2K prepara-
   MODERNIZED TECHNOLOGY tion process added discipline to IT BASE AND
   MANAGEMENT management, and mandated a more EFFICIENCY holistic approach
   to solving problems in internal and external systems. The attention of
   executive-level per- A central management decision that sonnel at vital
   stages of Y2K priori- emerged during Y2K remediation tizing, planning,
   and remediation has was whether to modernize or scrap resulted in
   higher levels of account- legacy systems. As a result, organi- ability
   and reliability in IT manage- ment. For the first time-and at a 7
   critical juncture in the development "The Economics of Y2K and the
   Impact on the United States," U.S. Department of Commerce, of an
   IT-driven economy-private Economics and Statistics Administration, Nov.
   firms and public organizations have 17, 1999, at vii. 17 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT zations such as the U.S. Postal The Year
   2000 Information and Service have completely renovated Readiness
   Disclosure Act provided information infrastructures. relief from some
   antitrust concerns of intra-industry information sharing. Many
   organizations constrained to The Y2K Act provided an additional
   updating legacy systems have-at incentive for vendor-initiated "due the
   very least-created system diligence" and corporate coopera-
   documentation for the first time, a tion. step that will aid future IT
   problem- solving. Trade associations were instrumen- tal in the
   establishment of industry According to Committee testimony, Y2K
   practice standards and in com- many private firms and public agen-
   municating results of compliance ef- cies discovered during Y2K
   prepara- forts. Such monitoring of the tion that IT inventory was
   inaccurate changing compliance environment or absent. Through a process
   of created an incentive for organiza- auditing, organizations learned
   that tions to avoid being the last across they were more vulnerable to
   prob- the finish line. lems in IT than previously believed. The use of
   the Internet was also a BETTER COMMUNICATION significant change in
   managing a NETWORKS AND potential national and global crisis.
   PUBLIC/PRIVATE Nearly every business with a pres- PARTNERSHIPS ence on
   the web had a link to a statement regarding Y2K compli- ance. Other web
   sites, such as that The Y2K problem existed on such provided by the
   Food and Drug Ad- short timelines that a federal top- ministration,
   listed medical devices down regulatory approach was not and linked to
   company compliance practical, except within the existing information.
   framework of highly regulated indus- tries. The financial sector was
   one Industry groups, associations of pub- such regulatory environment,
   while lic managers, and trade organiza- small chemical producers were
   not. tions all established web sites that Further, the constantly
   evolving explained how a particular industry status of compliance meant
   that was Y2K ready, or how members most compliance information was
   could become Y2K compliant. As out-of-date the moment it was pub- one
   computer industry spokesman lished. noted, "both companies and coun-
   tries coming late to Y2K were able to The challenge was to create net-
   gain enormous efficiencies from the works of individuals, industries,
   and shared experience of others. These organizations to share
   information, efficiencies expressed themselves in and a legal
   environment where in- saved work, fewer mistakes and formation could be
   readily shared. false starts, more productive pro- 18 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT cesses, a better understanding of
   readiness reports about each other, available tools and supports,
   compli- it became clear that insular perspec- ance information and
   more."8 tives were ultimately self-defeating, given the level of
   industry interde- Use of the Internet provided an un- pendence. As
   Howard Rubin testified precedented level of organizational before the
   Committee, "[m]ore re- transparency. This transparency cently, a major
   shift in the global po- paved the way for effective pub- sition and
   posture with regard to lic/private partnerships and open Year 2000 has
   to do with the realiza- communication between different in- tion of the
   level of interaction be- dustries preparing for Y2K. Compa- tween and
   within nations and sec- nies and industry groups employed tors."9 KEY
   PRIVATE/PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Sector Trade Association Lead Federal
   Organization Airlines Air Transport Association Department of
   Transportation Electric Power North American Electric Reliability
   Department of Energy Financial Services Securities Industry Association
   Securities and Exchange Commission Natural Gas American Gas Association
   Department of Energy Interstate Natural Gas Association of America Oil
   American Petroleum Institute Department of Energy Pharmaceuticals
   National Pharmaceutical Alliance Department of Health and Human Service
   National Association of Chain Drug Stores Retail National Retail
   Federation Information Coordination Center Telecommunications Network
   Reliability and National Communications System Interoperability Council
   aggressive methods of evaluating Y2K progress. For example, the The
   President's Y2K Conversion telecommunications industry was Council
   deserves an enormous evaluating the Y2K readiness of the amount of
   credit for facilitating pub- power industry, the banking industry
   lic/private partnerships. Key part- was evaluating the telecommunica-
   nerships are shown in the table. By tions industry, and the power
   indus- establishing more than 20 sector try was looking at both
   industries as working groups chaired by a federal sources of Y2K
   vulnerability. Once agency, with private sector trade as- these groups
   began publishing sociation participation, much sharing of information
   and cross sector coor- 8 Testimony of Harris Miller, President of the
   In- dination was made possible. This formation Technology Association
   of America, sharing of lessons learned enabled before the Subcommittee
   on Government Man- work to be completed more effi- agement,
   Information, and Technology, House Committee on Government Reform and
   Over- sight, January 27, 2000. 9 Testimony before the Senate Special
   Commit- tee on the Year 2000 Technology Problem, Oc- tober 13, 1999. 19
   SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K
   AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT ciently than would
   otherwise have up by more efficiently addressing been possible, and
   provided a level Y2K problems. Although the Center of comfort among
   dependent sectors is scheduled to disband on March 1, that specific Y2K
   concerns were be- 2000, the Committee finds that some ing addressed.
   The Committee type of similar international coordi- finds that these
   private/public part- nation mechanism could be useful in nerships may
   be useful for address- addressing future IT issues. ing computer
   security, infrastructure protection, and other IT issues in the future.
   GREATER AWARENESS OF IT DEPENDENCIES & SECURITY RISKS Useful
   partnerships were also estab- lished internationally. Many interna- Y2K
   prompted the government and tional organizations were instru- the
   private sector to closely examine mental in heightening worldwide Y2K
   the IT infrastructure upon which they awareness and in stimulating
   action. had come to rely. As contractors Most importantly, the United
   Nations and subcontractors were brought in (UN) held its first Y2K
   event in De- to do inventory assessments and to cember 1998. About 120
   countries test and remediate software and sent delegates and, according
   to hardware, many organizations began John Koskinen, "probably half of
   to think carefully about the risk to whom weren't sure why they were
   information security. To varying de- there."10 By the UN's second meet-
   grees, the entire business enterprise ing in June 1999, where more than
   of virtually every private organization 170 countries sent delegates,
   nearly and government entity has been all had mounted a serious
   national opened to outsiders. effort to ensure their critical systems
   would be ready. As the Committee noted in its 100 Day Report, the risk
   of giving outsid- The International Y2K Cooperation ers sudden access
   to systems that Center was established in February once belonged only
   to trusted insid- 1999 under the auspices of the UN ers presents a
   credible risk to infor- with funding from the World Bank. mation
   security stability. The GAO This organization created a useful recently
   criticized the Federal Avia- mechanism for governments from tion
   Administration for giving non- member countries to share informa- U.S.
   citizens access to highly sensi- tion and lessons learned about Y2K.
   tive information systems critical to air the Cooperation Center
   probably en- safety.11 Currently, the breach to abled countries,
   particularly those security remains unknown. that got off to a slow
   start, to catch 10 Testimony before the Subcommittee on Gov- 11
   "Computer Security: FAA Needs to Improve ernment Management,
   Information, and Technol- Controls Over the Use of Foreign Nationals to
   ogy, House Committee on Government Reform Remediate and Review
   Software," AIMD-00-55, and Oversight, January 27, 2000. Dec. 23, 1999.
   20 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K
   AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT There is no geography
   in the world threat to these businesses should of software. Y2K
   corrections were provide additional incentive to the made around the
   world with tremen- industry to work together with gov- dous speed, and
   a variety of fixes ernment to form a united front were implemented.
   There is some against future attacks. degree of risk associated with
   the rapid deconstruction of successful Perhaps Y2K has helped organiza-
   Y2K programs and the dispersal of tions develop a keener sense of their
   the system expertise that was devel- dependency on information technol-
   oped. ogy. Before Y2K occurred, the DOD did not know how many mission-
   Security is a process of becoming, critical systems it had. Likewise,
   not a state of being. The e- many corporations found that they commerce
   revolution has perforated were not aware of the redundancy or complex
   interconnected business the inefficiency of their information entities
   with security breaches. In- enterprises. formation technology and
   security issues have moved from the back- Y2K significantly raised the
   impor- room to the boardroom. The com- tance of IT issues and caused
   much munities that most need to be en- of government and industry to
   raise gaged are financial analysts, who security and reliability as top
   execu- can drive the business to excel at tive priorities-a position
   they will information security. likely maintain for the foreseeable
   future. A great deal of attention has The need to shore up information
   been given to securing the Internet security was reinforced by the wave
   and making transactions for e- of denial of service attacks that oc-
   commerce safe and trusted. How- curred during the first weeks of Feb-
   ever, the question remains whether ruary 2000. Such attacks raised the
   requisite attention has been questions about the security of web given
   to the assurance and security sites used by millions of Americans of
   the Internet infrastructure. for both pleasure and business. The 21
   SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K
   AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT 22 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT WHAT'S NEXT/HOW DO WE CAPITALIZE ON Y2K?
   Y2K has heightened awareness example, the challenge of protecting about
   the importance of high-tech critical infrastructures from com-
   infrastructure protection. Since its puter-based attacks extends well
   be- formation, the Committee has fo- yond federal operations. It spans
   the cused closely on technological vul- entire spectrum of the national
   and nerabilities in key national infra- global economies. structures.
   Many critical infrastructure facilities It is the Committee's
   assessment are owned and operated by private that improving critical
   infrastructure companies whose continued secure protection will be the
   next major operations are essential to the na- challenge to the IT
   community. The tional welfare. As a result, establish- Senate must
   examine congressional ing public-private partnerships has structure and
   efficacy for addressing been recognized as one of the major critical
   infrastructure protection and challenges of critical infrastructure
   future IT issues. protection. Year 2000 preparation addressed
   MAINTAIN/ENHANCE Y2K numerous vulnerabilities outside the NETWORKS AND
   federal government. Vulnerabilities PUBLIC/PRIVATE were identified in
   state and local PARTNERSHIPS governments, the public infrastruc- ture,
   and other key economic sectors During the readiness process, new such
   as financial services. A single relationships and partnerships were
   failure in one system could affect forged to combat the shared risk of
   many others, including those in the Y2K vulnerability. The
   interconnect- nation's complex array of public and edness and
   interdependencies of private enterprises that have system modern
   businesses and organiza- interdependencies at all levels. tions, across
   all industry sectors, re- quired that programs addressing For this
   reason, it is important that Y2K not simply focus internally, but
   domestic and international industry also on supply chain relationships
   and government partnerships nur- and business partnerships. tured
   during Y2K preparations are maintained and continue to grow. In the
   Information Age, the relation- ships established for Y2K will prove
   invaluable. Many of the efforts un- dertaken to manage and remedy the
   Year 2000 problem can also be ap- plied to long-term challenges. For 23
   SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K
   AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT LEVERAGE Y2K LESSONS
   TO In addition, the low cost and avail- IMPROVE INFRASTRUCTURE ability
   of computer technology places PROTECTION adversaries within a few
   keystrokes of key national systems. The inter- connectivity and public
   access to Preparation for Y2K prompted a sig- U.S. information systems
   makes the nificant, worldwide investment in nation more vulnerable to
   informa- business information systems and tion attacks than most.
   high-tech infrastructures. This in- vestment has not only improved A
   looming challenge for U.S. policy system and network reliability, but
   makers lies in devising methods to has also accelerated e-commerce
   detect, deter and respond to infor- and globalization. Globalization-
   mation attacks against critical na- rapid economic, technological,
   tional infrastructures. cultural and political integration-is bringing
   citizens from all continents Congress became concerned about closer
   together, allowing them to information attacks and tasked the
   instantaneously share ideas, goods, Administration to investigate,
   report and information. The Internet, and develop a plan for
   information globalization's superhighway, has and cyber defense 1996
   and 1997. become an essential tool for Presidential Decision Directive
   No. strategic coordination and 63 (PDD 63) was issued in May
   communication in government and 1998, and a national plan for critical
   private industry. infrastructure protection was re- leased in January
   2000. These With its rewards, however, globaliza- documents constituted
   the federal tion also brings risks. Aside from the government's first
   formal approach traditional threats associated with to national defense
   against informa- weapons of mass destruction, ter- tion-based attacks.
   rorism, drug trafficking, and other international crimes are global
   con- The National Security Strategy re- cerns that transcend national
   bor- leased by the White House in Janu- ders. ary 2000 outlines the
   issues of vital interest to the country. Among these Domestic national
   security and eco- are the physical security of the U.S. nomic strength
   is no longer protected and its allies, the safety of U.S. citi- by
   geographic separation from ad- zens, the economic well-being of
   versaries by the Atlantic and Pacific American society, and the
   protection oceans. The new geography of of our critical
   infrastructures, such as worldwide Internet connectivity energy,
   banking and finance, tele- leaves the U.S. vulnerable to the im-
   communications, transportation, pact of economic problems experi- enced
   in other countries, anywhere in the world. 24 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE
   ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL
   COMMITTEE REPORT water systems, and emergency are likely to be a
   mixture of physical services.12 and information-based attacks that
   tangle jurisdictional boundaries and The National Plan to protect in-
   thwart the timely response of the formation systems is entitled "An
   federal agencies. Invitation to Dialogue." Congress and the
   Administration must examine the following: CONGRESSIONAL ROLE IN
   INFRASTRUCTURE PROTECTION * The role of the DOD in providing a defense
   against information Critical infrastructure protection in- attacks;
   cludes a vast range of issue areas. Such areas include information and
   * The U.S. definition of an informa- communications; banking and fi-
   tion attack; nance; water supply; transportation; emergency law
   enforcement; emer- * The adequacy of organization gency fire service;
   emergency medi- and funding among the intelli- cine; electric power,
   oil, and gas gence community to assess and supply and distribution; law
   enforce- address information warfare ment and internal security;
   intelli- threats; gence; foreign affairs; and national defense. These
   activities cross mul- * The need for the National Intelli- tiple
   committee jurisdictions. Many gence Council to have an Infor-
   congressional committees have mation operations officer; oversight over
   small segments of critical infrastructure protection, and * A national
   security amendment to no congressional committee has the the
   Telecommunications Act of jurisdiction over the issue as a 1996 to
   outline a reconstitution whole. requirement for Internet service
   providers; and * A legal framework providing for the common defense
   while en- suring individual privacy and se- curity. The security
   challenges which will face the U.S. in the coming years will be
   increasingly complex. This is par- ticularly so because the challenges
   12 "National Plan for Information Systems Protec- tion Version 1.0: An
   Invitation to a Dialogue." 25 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000
   TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT
   [page left intentionally blank] 26 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR
   2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE
   REPORT APPENDIX I COMMITTEE ENABLING LEGISLATION The Committee was
   established during the second session of the 105th Congress by Senate
   Resolution No. 208. This resolution, which was agreed to on April 2,
   1998, set forth the Committee's purposes, membership, authority, and
   funding. Senate Resolution No. 208 was amended during the first session
   of the 106th Congress by Senate Resolution No. 7. This resolution,
   which was agreed to on March 2, 1999, increased the Committee's
   funding. The full text of both resolu- tions follows. 27 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Senate Resolution 208, authorizing the
   Committee is available online at the Library of Congress
   http://thomas.loc.gov/.
   http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c105:S.RES.208: 28 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Senate Resolution 208, authorizing the
   Committee is available online at the Library of Congress
   http://thomas.loc.gov/.
   http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c105:S.RES.208: 29 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Senate Resolution 208, authorizing the
   Committee is available online at the Library of Congress
   http://thomas.loc.gov/.
   http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c105:S.RES.208: 30 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Senate Resolution 208, authorizing the
   Committee is available online at the Library of Congress
   http://thomas.loc.gov/.
   http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c105:S.RES.208: 31 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Senate Resolution 208, authorizing the
   Committee is available online at the Library of Congress
   http://thomas.loc.gov/.
   http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c105:S.RES.208: 32 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Senate Resolution 208, authorizing the
   Committee is available online at the Library of Congress
   http://thomas.loc.gov/.
   http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c105:S.RES.208: 33 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Senate Resolution 208, authorizing the
   Committee is available online at the Library of Congress
   http://thomas.loc.gov/.
   http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c105:S.RES.208: 34 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Senate Resolution 208, authorizing the
   Committee is available online at the Library of Congress
   http://thomas.loc.gov/.
   http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c105:S.RES.208: 35 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Senate Resolution 208, authorizing the
   Committee is available online at the Library of Congress
   http://thomas.loc.gov/.
   http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/z?c105:S.RES.208: 36 SENATE SPECIAL
   COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS
   AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT APPENDIX II EXAMPLES OF Y2K GLITCHES The
   full extent of Y2K problems will probably never be known because only a
   small fraction of the actual occurrences will be reported. There is no
   incentive for corporations or countries of the world to openly report
   computer problems. As with any internal problems, organizations will
   likely simply fix them and continue their operations unbeknownst to the
   general public. The problems listed below were compiled from a variety
   of public and private sources including news serv- ices. While the
   sources are considered to be reliable, the Committee was not able to
   verify each incident or specifically attribute it to Y2K. Utilities: *
   Several electric utilities in North America have reported minor
   glitches with the synchronization feature of the clocks used in their
   energy management system computers * Seven nuclear power plants
   experienced minor Y2K glitches in non-safety systems and were quickly
   fixed * Hadley, MA: Software used to process data and create reports at
   the town's wastewater treatment plant has experienced a Y2K failure *
   Hundreds of Knoxville Utilities Board bills were printed with incorrect
   "pay- ment due" dates, either in January 1900 or January 2099. * The
   new Manatee County Public Works system was spitting out water, sewer
   and garbage bills with unrelated and incorrect data, but corrected
   utility bills are finally in the mail for 20,000 Manatee County
   (Florida) customers a month late after changes intended as Y2K fixes
   caused problems * A power outage in Carson City, Nevada for 30 minutes
   * Santa Fe water company experienced billing system glitches * Akron,
   Ohio water company sends out erroneous shut off notices to 3000
   customers * Grand Prairie, Healthcare: * Tissue processor medical
   device in VA hospital would not accept 2000 as a date to run on
   automatic, but would operate manually * Medical displays of Sera-520
   model electrolysis analyzers have incorrect date stamp, but operation
   not affected 37 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY
   PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT * Florida
   and Kentucky reported Y2K-related problems with their unemployment
   benefits' automated telephone call processing system. 100 claimants in
   Florida and fewer than 50 claimants in Kentucky were effected and the
   prob- lems were fixed * Guam implemented manual processing for several
   welfare systems that were not Y2K compliant * $50 million in Medicare
   payments were delayed 1 day because of a Y2K problem with the
   electronic fund transfer through a bank that handles such transactions
   * Medicare provider claims are being returned (rejected) because they
   are be- ing submitted with dates of 1900 or 2099. One contractor alone
   had received about 11,000 claims with these erroneous dates * Oregon
   had Y2K-related errors in systems used for Food Stamps, Child Sup- port
   Enforcement, and Temporary Assistance for Needy Families. The problems
   were fixed, but a 1 day delay in some payments to clients resulted
   Telecommunications: * Charlotte, North Carolina: 911 systems broke down
   Wednesday 12/29/99 during rounds of Y2K testing * Emergency telephones
   along Interstate 87 stop working * Long distance phone service was out
   in widespread parts of central Montana for about three hours * Cisco
   issues notices of router problems since rollover and for February 29 *
   911 problems in Orange County Florida * 911 system in the Minneapolis
   metro area experienced problems on January 30th for several hours due
   to a system upgrade. Transportation: * Amtrak's Philadelphia Control
   Center system would not retain train symbols as the train progressed on
   the system * Two key FAA systems experienced Y2K problems that were
   quickly resolved: (1) the Low Level Wind Shear Alert System at eight
   sites, (2) Kavouras Graphic Weather Display System * Power Conditioning
   System Data terminal equipment in four cities displayed the date "1900"
   on rollover * ARINC Oceanic Display and Planning System printers in two
   locations failed the transition from 1999 to 2000. These are not FAA
   printers but are a redun- dant system used in the relay of data from
   ARINC communications centers to air traffic controllers handling
   oceanic traffic * I n Chicago, an airport wind-shear alert system had a
   minor glitch that flashed an error message at four smaller airports and
   railroad gates in Shiloh went down without reason and stayed down 38
   SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K
   AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT Financial: * Bank
   credit card companies reported problems with merchants who did not
   install free upgrades to CyberCash, Inc. software; result was duplicate
   post- ings of charges * Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago reported glitch
   in transferring tax payments from customers of 60 financial
   institutions * Failure of overnight batch credit card settlement
   through Chase Merchant Services General Business: * Godiva Chocolates
   (parent company  Cambell Soup) experienced total sys- tems failure
   including cash registers in its New York store, but were back in
   operation within three hours. * Several news papers find problems with
   dates in online editions, but content was not affected * A small
   Portland trucking firm could not access any of its accounting informa-
   tion as a result of not installing upgrades to its BizWorks software *
   Incorrect dates appeared on office automation software for a small New
   Jer- sey trucking firm, but did not impact operations * Retailers that
   did not update their ICVerify systems could not do batch settle- ments
   after close of business; did not affect customer transactions, but
   could affect thousands of small businesses * Department of Defense
   Satellite-based intelligence system experienced a Y2K failure shortly
   after GMT in the ground station * The District of Columbia replaced its
   non-Y2K compliant system with a new financial management system late
   last year  & delays in full implementation are expected to delay some
   budget reports * Some driver licenses issued by the state of Indiana
   contained an incorrect expiration date due to a Y2K glitch. According
   to the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles, "Persons under age 75 received
   a driver license that expires in 2005, although state law mandates that
   a license is valid for four years. Mo- torists age 75 and older are
   required to renew a driver license every three years, but licenses
   issued since Jan 2 show an expiration date of 2004." * A Y2K problem
   caused Richland, Mississippi police dept. to sent out hun- dreds of
   incorrect letters demanding immediate payment for traffic fines, some
   of which had already been paid * The Navajo Nation Law Enforcement
   reported that seven of its eight com- puter-aided dispatch servers
   failed and a manual process was used until the servers were fixed on
   January 19, 2000 * The security access system froze in an open position
   due to malfunction in clock system in a federal building in Omaha 39
   SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K
   AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT * Computers in three
   Hampstead county (Arkansas) offices have been bitten by the Y2K bug.
   The glitch in the program has halted work on payroll and claims * In
   Chicago, the city's Doppler radar system went down for about five
   minutes. * A computer-run energy-management system at a federal
   building in Chicago suddenly flashed the date Jan. 4, 1980 * Redmond,
   Washington experienced problems with its city-issued fuel access cards,
   and the police department's computer-aided dispatch system found a
   minor Y2K bug General Government: * 800 slot machines in Delaware shut
   down after reading the current date as January 1, 1900 * Highland Bank
   of Chicago experienced problems receiving and processing electronic
   funds transfer payment files affecting a Medicare contractor in
   California, Oregon, Arizona, and New York * Florida and Kentucky
   reported problems with unemployment insurance bene- fit systems that
   delayed individuals from filing claims * The Y2K bug caused a few minor
   malfunctions in Apple Computer Inc.'s in- formation technology system.
   * Slot machines malfunctioned on December 31st due to Y2K * U.S.
   Homecare had to create manual work-arounds for all basic functions,
   from billing to payroll because of Y2K glitches that struck shortly
   after the new year * Lamonts Apparel Inc., which operates 38 department
   stores in the Pacific Northwest, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
   protection. The company said that its cash flow had been squeezed by
   slow spring and summer sales and un- expected costs associated with
   fixing its Y2K computer problems The com- pany paid a combined $10
   million to install new computerized registers and other hardware as
   part of its efforts to combat the Y2K bug * The government listings in
   the Milwaukee white pages are so riddled with er- rors that Ameritech
   Corp. has agreed to reprint that section and hand-deliver it for free
   to consumers next month. The company updated its software last year to
   make it Y2K-compliant. But the software had bugs and introduced the
   errors into the system * In Champaign, Ill., roughly 8,500 Illicall
   subscribers received their January 2000 long-distance statements;
   however, they appear to be a century old al- ready because of a Y2K
   glitch International: Australia * Telephone outages in southern
   Australia * Payroll calculated from 1900 at Sybiz Software 40 SENATE
   SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM Y2K AFTERMATH
   CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT * PC problems reported by
   Microsoft Australia * Electric train ticket sales equipment in Sydney
   registered wrong date * Public transport ticketing system failed in
   Tasmania and South Australia Austria * City of Vienna EDP systems
   failures Belarus * Pension payment system problems Benin * Bank pension
   systems malfunction * Telecommunications switching problems * Maritime
   GPS equipment malfunction * Train telecommunication switch disruptions
   Bolivia * Failure in a customs system at Puetro Suarez * Land property
   registration glitches * Minor glitches at a public office in Cobija *
   Health diagnosis equipment failure * Accounting software (SINCOM)
   failure Botswana * Fax and telex system failures within government
   offices * Medical equipment failures at Athlope Hospital * Police
   department fax and telex system problems Brazil * Airport customs
   systems did not recognize receipts issued last year * Port customs
   system did not recognize receipts issued last year * Convenience store
   cash registers could not process receipts * Hospital appointment system
   failed * Toll booths unable to process receipts Bulgaria * Internet
   servers unavailable shortly after rollover Canada * Public school
   system payroll miscalculations * Prison door systems failed in British
   Colombia * Department of motor vehicle system malfunction * Failure of
   a switching station in Oshawa * Malfunctions on individual portfolios
   on the Toronto Stock Exchange website China * A few mid- to
   small-businesses" financial systems failed * A QingDao hotel reported a
   problem in its control system for room assign- ments * Taxi meter
   failures reported in NanJing * ATMs would not dispense cash and had
   incorrect balance displays * Database problems at the Anning Printing
   Plant 41 SENATE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE YEAR 2000 TECHNOLOGY PROBLEM
   Y2K AFTERMATH  CRISIS AVERTED FINAL COMMITTEE REPORT * Savings bank
   electronic time keeping board malfunctions * Reporting/query system
   malfunctions at newspaper offices * Date display malfunctions at
   Sino-Japanese Friendship Hospital * Halian Department Store system
   malfunctions * State Meteorological Administration computerizxed
   monitoring system failed * Peoples Bank internal and interbank e-mail
   and credit card system failures * Taxi meter failures Colombia * Social
   security systems date validation conflicts * Non-compliant maritime
   tank ship Costa Rica * Billing system problems at a petroleum refinery
   Czech Republic * Taxi meter failures * Land registry office system
   malfunctions Denmark * Second largest bank, UNIBANK, identified glitch
   in Unitel payment and infor- mation systems for about 20 corporate
   clients Ecuador * Internet server problems at the Ministry of Labor *
   System malfunctions at the offices of the Attorney General Egypt *
   Hospital dialysis machine failures France * Ground station
   communication problem relating to Syracuse II satellite * Finance,
   personnel, and production system malfunctions at more than 15% of the
   nation's
