http://www.ins.usdoj.gov/graphics/index.htm

   Skip Navigation
   Immigration and Naturalization Service
   Textonly INS Home What's New FAQs Search & Site Map Glossary Feedback
   Translate Printer Friendly Version


   About INS and FOIA
   INS Forms, Fees and Fingerprints
   Immigration Services and Benefits
   Law Enforcement and Border Management
   Field Offices
   Laws, Regulations, and Guides
   Public Affairs
   Working for INS
   Other Government Sites
   An agency of the Department of Justice

                               The INS Online



   INS Issues Reports on Legal Immigration in FY 1999 and 2000
   Read more, including the two reports, and the News Release about their
   release.
   T Nonimmigrant Classification for Victims of Trafficking Announced
   The Attorney General announced new T nonimmigrant classification for
   victims of severe forms of human trafficking will be available soon.
   Read the INS Fact Sheet on application procedures using the new INS
   form I-914 and its Instructions.
   SAVE Pilot Program Extended
   On January 16, President Bush signed P.L. 107-128 extending the SAVE
   basic pilot program for employment eligibility verification until 2004.
   INS Restructuring Director Announced
   The Commissioner named Richard Cravener as the INS Director of
   Restructuring. The proposal to restructure the INS was announced
   earlier by the Department of Justice. Read also the Fact Sheet and the
   full INS Restructuring Plan (Note: This is a large PDF file, 568KB, and
   may take longer to download).

   INS Recruiting Immigration Inspectors and Border Patrol Agents
   INS is recruiting entry-level Immigration Inspectors nationwide.
   Register by February 28, 2002. INS is recruiting entry-level Border
   Patrol Agents for work along the U.S. Southwest Border. Register by May
   13, 2002.
   Walters v. Reno
   INS publishes notice on settlement agreement, informing class members
   of their rights and responsibilities under the agreement. Read INS News
   Release and Questions and Answers.
   INS Announces Fee Adjustments, Effective February 19, 2002
   INS recently announced adjustments to some fees. Read the INS
   announcement, and the list of revised fees.
      Hot Topics
   * How Do I Picture of question mark

   * INS Forms Online

   * Current Vacancies

   * INS Customer Service Call Center
     1-800-375-5283
     1-800-767-1833 (TTY)            Picture of a hand holding a telephone

   * Employer Information

   * Information for Congressional Offices

   * Green Cards Picture of Greencard

   * LIFE Act

   * Teacher and Student Resources Picture of a Gold Graduation Cap

   * Statistics

   * DOJ Response to Terrorist Attacks Picture of red, white, and blue
                                       ribbon

   Picture of blue award ribbon Picture of an oval with the words INS
                Online in the middle     First Gov Image

   Check out the Awards and Recognition that the INS Website has received.

   Please read our privacy notice and general disclaimer.


    Last Modified 01/28/2002
