http://www.ne.nrcs.usda.gov/nrd/upper_loup_nrd.asp

   Upper Loup NRD

   Home NE Photo Gallery Hot Topics and News Directory N R D ' s RC&D
   Helpful Links Technical Resources Programs and Services Career
   Opportunities Volunteer

Upper Loup NRD image      UPPER LOUP NRD

   Office Information

   Kevin Hood
   District Conservationist
                           Jct Hwy 2 & Hwy 83 S.
                           P.O. Box 146
                           Thedford, NE 69166-0146
                                                  Phone: (308) 645-2621
                                                  Fax: (308) 645-2650

     Directory for Upper Loup NRD

     District Conservationist Biographical Sketch

     Resource Needs and Concerns

     Priorities Addressed by NRCS

     Primary Programs and Services
   District Conservationist Biographical Sketch
   [kevin-hood.gif]
   Kevin W. Hood
   District Conservationist
   Upper Loup NRD

     1977 -- Graduated from Butte Public High School, Butte, Nebraska.

     1979 -- Graduated from University of Nebraska School of Technical
   Agriculture with Associate Degree in Ag Land and Water, Curtis,
   Nebraska.
   Started with the Soil Conservation Service as a Soil Conservation
   Technician in the Area Office in Lincoln in December, 1980. Transferred
   to the Wilber Field Office in June of 1981. Worked as a Soil
   Conservation Technician in the field office until October, 1989.
   October, 1989, transferred to the Midwest National Technical Center as
   a Hydrologic Technician on the National Range Study Team. In November,
   1994, changed series from Hydrologic Technician to Soil Conservationist
   and worked in the Midwest National Technical Center until January,
   1996. In January, 1996, became District Conservationist at the Mullen
   Field Office.
   The Upper Loup Natural Resources District encompasses 6690 square miles
   of the Sandhills of Nebraska. The District includes all of Blaine,
   Grant, Hooker, Logan, and Thomas counties, and parts of Brown, Cherry,
   and McPherson counties. Villages within the district are Ashby,
   Brewster, Brownlee, Dunning, Elsmere, Gandy, Halsey, Hyannis, Mullen,
   Purdum, Seneca, Stapleton, Thedford, and Whitman. According to the 1990
   Census, the population is approximately 5220 of which 66% is rural and
   34% is urban. Cattle outnumber people in the District at nearly a 50:1
   ratio. The headwaters of the North Loup, Middle Loup, South Loup,
   Calumus, and Dismal Rivers all are within the boundary of the District.
   The District is 96% rangeland. Range management is the Primary Resource
   Concern. The Bessey Division of the Nebraska National Forest covers
   approximately 90,000 acres in Thomas County and 22,000 acres in Blaine
   County.
   Resource Needs and Concerns
    1. Maintain and Improve Range and Pasture Resources
    2. Maintain Water Quality and Quantity
    3. Promote Soil Conservation and Reduce Erosion
    4. Improve Recreation, Fish and Wildlife Resources
    5. Develop and Improve Forest Resources
    6. Promote Solid Waste Management and Pollution Control

   NRCS is the primary source for technical expertise and assistance to
   address the priorities identified by the NRD in their Master Plan and
   by the Local Work Group. NRCS is actively involved in providing
   technical assistance related to planned grazing systems and proper
   grazing use, to address resource concerns related to rangeland and
   pastureland. This technical assistance consists of ranch maps, range
   condition mapping, computation of pasture acres, rangeland monitoring,
   and calculating recommended stocking rates. Water development, which
   includes pipeline surveys and designs, is an increasing part of the
   technical assistance.
   The NRD has a technician who has primary responsibility for tree
   planting program, chemigation inspection and permits, andn well
   monitoring program within the District.
   Primary programs and services
   NRCS utilizes the following programs on a routine basis to address the
   resource concerns and needs identified by the Upper Loup NRD and the
   Local Work Group:
     * EQIP
     * WHIP
     * WRP
     * CRP
     * NSWCP

   In fiscal year 1998, the Upper Loup River Basin Geographic Priority
   Area was approved for funding by EQIP. The priority area covers 1.84
   million acres in Blaine, Brown, Cherry, and Thomas counties. The
   priority area covers the North Loup and Calumus River drainage within
   the boundaries of the district. The primary resource concern for the
   priority area is the protection and enhancement of the grazing lands.
   Wildlife habitat and wetlands are the secondary resource concerns. In
   fiscal year 1998, 25 applications requesting 1,066,649 were received.
   15 of these applications were approved for contract development for a
   total of $394,631.


   [blue_bar.gif]
   Partner Links: NRCS | USDA | NACD | FSA | RD | FS | CSREES
   [blue_bar.gif]

   United States Department of Agriculture
   Natural Resources Conservation Service
   Nebraska State Office
   100 Centennial Mall North, Room 152
   Lincoln, NE 68508
   Webmaster
