http://www.ustreas.gov/education.html

   Treasury Educational Links Menu

   ( Skip past Naviogational Links Home ) ( E-Mail ) ( FAQS )
   ( Search ) ( Sitemap ) ( Text Only )
   ( Privacy Statement)

     Treasury Kids Page
     This site, developed in response to the President's April 1997
     initiative on Internet-based Education, has won awards from
     Classroom Connect and Education World for educating the "young at
     heart." Treasury's mascot, "Trez" (an alley cat who lives in the
     basement), takes you to the sites he found after he pounced on a
     really big mouse and got on the Internet. Trez allows you to color
     him on-line (just click on the cat) and takes you to his favorite
     Treasury sites. Send Email to Granny

     Treasury's Learning Vault
     The Treasury Department was established by an Act of Congress on
     September 2, 1789. The Main Treasury Building is the third oldest
     Federally-occupied building, following the White House and the
     Capitol . We are committed to supporting President Clinton's goal of
     ensuring that America leads the world in education, and developed
     this site to provide educational information for use by teachers,
     parents and students of all ages. Open the door to our Learning
     Vault, and you will learn all about the history of theTreasury
     Department and its role in the Federal government.

     STAWRS Kids Page
     The STAWRS Kid’s Page will educate kids on some of the basics
     involved in starting a business and the resulting employment related
     taxes. The purpose of the page is to inform these future taxpayers
     about the functions of the government agencies, forms that need to
     be filed, and the benefits of paying various taxes. The pages
     include an interactive "game" that allows the child to start a
     business , make money, hire employees and pay taxes. The pages have
     three additional sections that provide education on the tax and wage
     related forms, the function of each of the related government
     agencies and some of the benefits of various taxes.

     BEP Kids Page
     Schoolchildren now have the opportunity to learn all about money
     on-line thanks to the new web site created by the Bureau of
     Engraving and Printing. The kid-friendly site offers educational
     games, teacher resources and a chat room which allows students to
     ask experts at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing questions about
     currency.

     Note:   The chat room will be active only during specified times
     throughout the school year.

     Money Math
     Teachers are giving enthusiastic reviews to a new curriculum
     supplement for middle-school math students called Money Math:
     Lessons for Life. The four-lesson kit, written to national math
     standards, uses personal financial scenarios as real-life examples
     of mathematics concepts taught in grades 7-9. Topics include income,
     savings, investing, interest, compounding, spending, credit, taxes,
     and budgeting. The kit is downloadable online and will be sent free
     to teachers on request at moneymath@bpd.treas.gov.

     Tax Interactive
     Tax Interactive is a joint educational venture between the Internal
     Revenue Service and the American Bar Association Section of
     Taxation. Tax interactive contains fun, interactive modules that
     educate teenagers both about local, state and federal taxes and
     about how taxes are used in their communities. A toolkit is also
     available to help teachers prepare lessons about taxes.

     OCC BankSchool
     This is the story of the national banking system and its regulator
     -- the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or OCC. National
     banks provide important financial services to citizens, communities
     and businesses across the United States. The OCC’s mission is to
     ensure a safe and sound, competitive
     national banking system. Our story goes back more than 100 years. It
     is a story about creating a national currency in this country and
     about helping people achieve their dreams.



   { Skip past Bottom Navigational Links About Treasury } { Treasury
   Bureaus } { Treasury Offices } { Business Services }
   { Current Headlines } {Educational Links} { Product Sales & Auctions }
   { Public Information }
   { Home } { E-Mail } { FAQS } { Search } { Sitemap } { Privacy Statement
   }
