http://www.procurement.irs.treas.gov/tirno00006/amd0001.doc

    1. CONTRACT ID CODE PAGE OF PAGES amendment of
   solicitation/modification of contract 1 5 2. AMENDMENT/MODIFICATION NO.
   3. EFFECTIVE DATE 4. REQUISITION/PURCHASE REQ. NO. 5. PROJECT NO. (If
   applicable) 0001 1/02/2002 W1W00DCHA02 6. ISSUED BY CODE 20745003 7.
   ADMINISTERED BY (If other than Item 6) CODE Internal Revenue Service,
   A:P:O:S Constellation Centre 6009 Oxon Hill Road Oxon Hill, MD 20745 is
   not extended. Offers must acknowledge receipt of this amendment prior
   to the hour and date specified in the solicitation or as amended, by
   one of the following methods: (a) By completing Items 8 and 15, and
   returning __1__ copies of the amendment; (b) By acknowledging receipt
   of this amendment on each copy of the offer submitted; or (c) By
   separate letter or telegram which includes a reference to the
   solicitation and amendment numbers. FAILURE OF YOUR ACKNOWLEDGEMENT TO
   BE RECEIVED AT THE PLACE DESIGNATED FOR THE RECEIPT OF OFFERS PRIOR TO
   THE HOUR AND DATE SPECIFIED MAY RESULT IN REJECTION OF YOUR OFFER. If
   by virtue of this amendment you desire to change an offer already
   submitted, such change may be made by telegram or letter, provided each
   telegram or letter makes reference to the solicitation and this
   amendment, and is received prior to the opening hour and date
   specified. 12. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA (If required) N/A 13.
   THIS ITEM APPLIES ONLY TO MODIFICATIONS OF CONTRACTS/ORDERS, IT
   MODIFIES THE CONTRACT/ORDER NO. AS DESCRIBED IN ITEM 14. a. this change
   order is issued pursuant to: (Specify authority) the changes set forth
   in item 14 are made in the contract order no. in item 10a. b. the above
   numbered contract/order is modified to reflect the administrative
   changes (such as changes in paying office, appropriation date, etc.)
   set forth in item 14, pursuant to the authority of far 43.103(b). c.
   this supplemental agreement is entered into pursuant to authority of:
   d. other (Specify type of modification and authority) [ ] is required
   to sign this document and return copies to the issuing office. 14.
   description of amendment/modification (Organized by UCF section
   headings, including solicitation/contract subject matter where
   feasible.) The purpose of this amendment is to make changes to Sections
   J and L and answer questions, which have been posed by potential
   offerors as reflected on page 2 of this amendment. Except as provided
   herein, all terms and conditions of the document referenced in Item 9A
   or 10A, as heretofore changed, remains unchanged and in full force and
   effect. 15A. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print) 16A. NAME AND
   TITLE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print) 15B. CONTRACTOR/OFFEROR
   15C. DATE SIGNED 16B. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 16C. DATE SIGNED BY
   (Signature of person authorized to sign) (Signature of Contracting
   Officer) NSN 7540-01-152-8070 PREVIOUS EDITION UNUSABLE 30-105 STANDARD
   FORM 30 (Rev. 10-83) Prescribed by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.243
   TIRNO-02-R-00006 Page 2 of 5 Amendment 0001 1. Section J: a. Attachment
   D-4, page 2, Fourth Block - change ``yers'' to ``year''. b. Attachment
   D-7, paragraph 2, is amended to read: ``The purpose of the oral
   presentation (and question and answer session) is to allow for an oral
   examination of the offeror's capabilities in those areas listed below.
   The question and answer session will constitute discussions as defined
   in FAR 15.306.'' 2. Section L: a. Paragraph L.8(b)(2)(i) is amended to
   add the following: ``No more than 12 pieces of collateral documentation
   supporting projects cited under experience is acceptable. Documents
   included which exceed the 12 piece limitation will not be evaluated.''
   b. Paragraph L.8(d)(2)(ii) - The time and date specified for submission
   of past performance reference information is 4:00p.m. EST, January 23,
   2002. c. Paragraph L.8(g)(5) is deleted and replaced with the
   following: ``Attachment D-4 identifies the types of tasks the IRS has
   worked over the past two years on the current contract.'' 3. Questions
   and answers regarding the solicitation are offered: a. Are samples of
   creative work specifically designed for the IRS expected as part of the
   response? Answer: No. b. Please confirm the response to the sample
   tasks is, in general, a definition of HOW (process, resource
   requirements, deliverable, timing, etc.) the offeror approaches the
   task rather than providing a solution based on the statement of work
   (SOW) description contained in the RFP. Answer: The statement of work
   the offeror provides in response to the sample tasks is a detailed
   narrative of how the work will be done. This includes the ``HOW'' items
   above. Under the proposed contract, the government will use a statement
   of objectives TIRNO-02-R-00006 Page 3 of 5 Amendment 0001 (SOO)
   approach, whereby the contractor writes the statement of work instead
   of the Government. The SOW details the contractor's approach, including
   the how, who, where, when and metrics, if applicable the contractor
   will perform to meet the objective. The actual performance of the work
   is, in effect, the solution to meeting the objective. c. Is it a
   correct interpretation that the oral presentation is the offeror's
   demonstration and understanding of and ability to respond successfully
   to the government's requirements through the presentation of agency
   experience/case histories that are relevant to the IRS challenge?
   Answer: The specific topics to be addressed at the oral presentation
   are reflected in Attachment D- 7. Also see change to Attachment D-7
   above. How the offeror demonstrates its capabilities in these areas is
   at its own discretion so long as it is within the time allotted. The
   likely use of examples from previous projects or case histories should
   be similar in scope, price and complexity as that contained in the
   solicitation. d. Does the $20 million NTE budget include anticipated
   paid media costs? That is, does it include the $15 million for the
   electronic filing task? Are there other known media budgets that should
   be considered at this point? Answer: The $20 million includes the $15
   million electronic filing task. There are no other known media budgets
   to be considered at this time. e. Please confirm understanding of the
   following: Sample Task 1 is intended to include ALL of the anticipated
   annual labor/costs associated with Account Management (which includes
   contract administration) and Strategic Planning functions (plus
   required ODC's and travel costs) under this solicitation. These two
   functions would not, therefore, be included in our response to Sample
   Task 2. Is this accurate? Answer: Yes. Any account management for Task
   2 should be included in the account management task. Sample Task 2 is
   intended to include all labor costs associated with at least the
   "minimum requirements" and "deliverables" . As such, this would include
   all labor costs associated with the entire ETA program -- to include
   research, creative development, production (all media), interactive
   specialists, media planning and buying, media research, etc. However,
   it is our understanding that Account Management and Strategic Planning
   costs would be covered in Sample Task 1. Is this correct? Answer: Yes.
   TIRNO-02-R-00006 Page 4 of 5 Amendment 0001 f. Please confirm that the
   costs (labor, ODC's and travel) for ALL other IRS activities are to be
   incurred within the $20 million NTE. In other words, do all production,
   and non-Account Management and Strategic Planning labor costs over and
   above those associated with the ETA Sample Task 2 fall under the $20
   million NTE budget? Answer: Yes g. RE: Multi-Cultural: Which languages
   have the IRS traditionally used in communications? Have specific
   communications against Hispanics, African-Americans, Asian/Pacific
   Islanders, Native Americans been deployed? Any others? Answer: Until
   2004, the IRS will concentrate on Hispanics. After that, other
   potential languages would probably include Koreans and other Asian
   languages. One other language we may focus on over the next couple
   years is Tagalog (Phillipines). h. RE: Public Service Announcements:
   Does the IRS have a measure of the media "value" received of PSA
   activity in the past? Answer: Yes, but it is difficult to break out the
   values as far as audiences and dollar values. Each (PSA) spot has it's
   own separate tracking. i. RE: Page 54, Experience: There are
   instructions for submitting video in support of agency "experience". Is
   there any limitation on the submission of print or other communications
   forms to demonstrate past experience? May we submit CD-ROM's? Answer:
   Print collateral is limited to no more than 12 pieces (See paragraph 2
   above). A CD is acceptable so long as it does not exceed the 7-minute
   time limit. j. RE: Page 57, ODC's: The RFP requests ODC's for each
   "task" identified in Section C. Does this mean for each component in
   the "Scope" section? Can you provide clarification here? How does this
   relate to the ODC's requested in Sample Tasks 1 and 2? Answer: The
   ``each task'' referred to on page 57 are those activities cited under
   paragraph C.3(b) Scope, on page 7 and 8. These ODC's are not to be
   priced and only relate to the ODC's in sample task 1. A simple
   restatement of the ODC's or cross-reference to the proposed sample task
   1 ODC's is sufficient. All the ODC's that are proposed for successful
   completion of the sample tasks should be priced. k. Sample Task 2:
   Under the "Considerations" heading, there is a statement regarding the
   "saturation" of the e-file brand. This is followed by a discussion of a
   recent field re-organization and a requirement for support of local
   e-file marketing. Can this requirement be described more completely?
   Has there been a decision to move from "national" marketing of the
   e-file brand to the "local" level? A more complete understanding of
   this situation will be helpful in determining media planning and
   buying, PR, and event-related activities. Answer: At this time, no
   decision has been made to localize the marketing effort of e-file.
   TIRNO-02-R-00006 Page 5 of 5 Amendment 0001 l. Please confirm the
   proposal response to sample task 2 is a complete and detailed
   description of how the task will be approached rather than the
   deliverables themselves. Can you confirm that creative executions
   specific to the ETA task are not expected. Answer: The proposal
   response to the statement of objectives in both sample task 1 and 2 is
   a complete statement of work which should include the ``how'' the task
   will be performed and what will be done in performing the task. Sample
   Task 2 would also include a proposed performance measurement/metric and
   incentive plan. See also answer to questions 3b above. The performance
   of the sample tasks is not being solicited. The sample tasks represent
   the ``pre-task order issuance'' process. Creative executions in
   response to the task are not solicited and will not be
   e???????????????????????????????????????
