http://www.tva.gov/news/index.htm

   skip to main content TVA Logo Tennessee Valley Authority
                        Site Help Contact Us
   Search and Go Button __________________

   TVA Home About TVA Power System Environmental Stewardship River System
   Economic Development Investor Resources News & Media

   [head_news.jpg]



   InsideTVA News Releases Employee News


   TVA News

   Stories on this page
   Patterson Named TVA Engineer of the Year
   Public Workshops Will Focus on Nolichucky
   TVA Seeks Comment on Browns Ferry Environmental Statement
   Public Input Sought on Wind Farm Environmental Assessment
   Sequoyah Plant Sets Outage, Continuous Run Records
   New in Inside TVA

   TVA's Dramatic Difference

   Patterson Named TVA Engineer of the Year
   January 23, 2002— Russell Patterson of the Transmission/Power Supply
   group has been named TVA’s Engineer of the Year for developing
   innovative ways to protect the company’s transmission system and
   prevent potential power-equipment failures.

   Patterson was recognized yesterday by the TVA Board at a meeting in
   Muscle Shoals, Alabama. “Russell Patterson has helped enhance TVA’s
   business performance by identifying new technology that improves the
   reliability of our power supply to more than eight million power
   consumers,” Chairman Glenn L. McCullough Jr. said on behalf of the TVA
   Board. “Having a dependable, reliable supply of electric power is
   critical to the success of business and industry in today’s digital
   economy.”

   Patterson, a Project Specialist in Transmission System Protection,
   developed several engineering applications that have eliminated
   equipment failures, saving TVA thousands of dollars. “Russell
   Patterson’s work has been recognized by the industry and has resulted
   in the redesign of equipment by manufacturers,” said Chief Operating
   Officer Ike Zeringue. “TVA and others will benefit from his efforts to
   improve reliability and eliminate costly equipment failures.”

   Patterson, a resident of Whitwell, Tennessee, has been with TVA for 10
   years. He has a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering from
   Mississippi State and is nearing completion of a master’s in the field.
   As TVA’s Engineer of the Year, he is nominated for the federal Engineer
   of the Year award.

   top of page

   Public Workshops Will Focus on Nolichucky
   January 18, 2002— TVA will hold three public workshops to discuss the
   issues and choices involved in resolving potential flooding on
   Nolichucky Reservoir in Greene County, Tennessee.

   The workshops are scheduled for Tuesday, January 22, from 1 p.m. to 8
   p.m.; Friday, January 25, from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m.; and Saturday, January
   26, from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. They will be held at the Clyde Austin 4-H
   Center at 214 4-H Lane in Greeneville. Interested citizens can attend
   any of the three workshops at any time during the scheduled hours.

   The workshops are designed to help people understand why TVA is
   preparing an environmental impact statement, what alternatives are
   being evaluated, and how the alternatives might affect a variety of
   interests on or near the reservoir.

   TVA has been working on the project for about two years and expects to
   issue a draft environmental impact statement by late January on the
   potential impact of floods on the Nolichucky Reservoir and alternatives
   for mitigating the effects.

   TVA expects to hold public meetings in February to hear comments on the
   draft environmental impact statement.

   top of page

   TVA Seeks Comment on Browns Ferry Environmental Statement
   January 14, 2002— TVA is gathering public comments on a draft
   supplemental environmental impact statement that examines the potential
   impacts of a proposal to extend the operation of Units 2 and 3 and
   potentially of Unit 1 at Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant.

   A public meeting was held on January 17 in Decatur, Alabama, to provide
   an opportunity for citizens to comment on the draft SEIS.

   TVA proposes to submit an application to the Nuclear Regulatory
   Commission to extend the operating licenses of Browns Ferry Nuclear
   Plant. Renewal of the licenses would permit TVA to continue operating
   the units an additional 20 years past the current 40-year
   operating-license terms, which expire in 2014 and 2016 for Units 2 and
   3, respectively.

   Unit 1, which has not operated for 15 years, has an operating license
   that expires in 2013. The SEIS examines the potential environmental
   impacts of restarting the unit and increasing the power output by up to
   20 percent.

   If TVA decides to seek license extensions, the three units would be
   able to continue to supply a firm, round-the-clock power supply to the
   TVA electric system to meet growing power demands.

   View the entire Browns Ferry environmental impact statement.

   top of page

   Public Input Sought on Wind Farm Environmental Assessment
   January 11, 2002— TVA is seeking comments on a draft environmental
   assessment regarding a proposed wind farm and energy-storage plant that
   would be built at one of two Tennessee locations: Stone Mountain near
   Mountain City or Buffalo Mountain near Oliver Springs.

   Public meetings were held on January 15 and 17 to provide information
   and gather citizens’ comments.

   As part of its program to develop renewable energy sources, TVA is
   exploring Stone Mountain as one of two suitable sites for the
   construction of 14 wind turbines. The agency is also considering
   expanding a site near Oliver Springs, where three wind turbines
   currently operate.

   The proposed wind farm would provide a minimum of 20 megawatts of
   additional wind power for TVA’s renewable energy initiative, Green
   Power Switch.

   TVA is also considering the possibility of building an energy-storage
   plant near the proposed wind-farm site that would be used to store
   electricity during periods of low demand and release it during periods
   of high demand.

   View the draft environmental assessment here. Copies are also available
   for viewing at local libraries. Comments can be mailed to Anita Rose at
   TVA, P.O. Box 1649, Norris, TN 37828 or e-mailed to her at
   tvainfo@tva.gov (Attn. Anita Rose).

   top of page

   Sequoyah Plant Sets Outage, Continuous Run Records
   January 8 , 2002— Sequoyah Nuclear Plant recently completed an outage
   on Unit 1 in 32 days and 7 minutes, setting several plant outage
   records. Before that the plant set a TVA Nuclear continuous-run record
   for dual units.

   “The Sequoyah team, led by Plant Manager Dennis Koehl and Outage
   Manager Nick Welch, did an extraordinary job managing and executing
   this outage,” says Site Vice President Rick Purcell. “The many
   accomplishments were made possible due to the teamwork of everyone
   involved.”

   Koehl also credits plant partners for their contributions during this
   outage, which was completed with no recordable or lost-time injuries.
   “Employees on loan to Sequoyah from Browns Ferry, Corporate, and Watts
   Bar provided support and helped keep costs down,” says Koehl.
   “Additionally, our contract partners helped us meet the outage
   schedule.”

   Before Unit 1 was shut down on October 21 for the scheduled refueling
   outage, Sequoyah Units 1 and 2 completed a continuous run of 338 days,
   setting a TVA Nuclear record for a dual-unit run. The previous record
   was set last March by Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant, when it shut down for
   a scheduled outage after both its units had run concurrently for 258
   days.

   top of page









   Calendar
   Check here for a schedule of TVA Board meetings and other
   public-participation events.

   Environmental News
   Get the latest information on TVA’s environmental initiatives.

   Financial News
   Read news releases and fact sheets about TVA’s bond offerings, debt
   position, and more.

   Freedom of
   Information Act
   As a federal agency, TVA is required by the Freedom of Information Act
   to disclose records requested in writing. Here's information on FOIA
   and details on how to make a request.


   Media Inquiries
   If you're a journalist and need help with a story or more information
   about TVA, call the TVA News Desk at 865-632-6000. We're here to assist
   you.








   left corner image

      Contact Us | Search | Legal Notices | Privacy Policy | Employment
       TVA Home | About TVA | Power | Environment | Rivers | Economic
                       Development | Investors | News

   right corner image
