http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/expert_assessment/


   Climate Prediction Center Banner

     Skip Navigation Links


     HOME

   Expert Assessments


   Climate Prediction Center (CPC) meteorologists and oceanographers
   review climate and weather observations and data along with model
   results; assess their meaning, significance, and current status; and
   likely future climate impacts. Their findings are issued as
   assessments, advisories, special outlook discussions, and bulletins.

   Weather Photo Collage

   Assessments

   Assessments are reviews of current weather and climate information
   issued on a routine basis.

   • Threats Assessment

   On Tuesday, the CPC issues an assessment of weather- and
   climate-related threats to the United States for the next three to ten
   days.

   • Drought Assessment

   During the last week of the month, the CPC issues a seasonal drought
   assessment. On Thursdays, the CPC together with the United States
   Department of Agriculture, and the National Drought Mitigation Center
   in Lincoln, Nebraska, issues a weekly drought assessment called the
   United States Drought Monitor. These assessments review national
   drought conditions and indicate potential impacts for various economic
   sectors, such as agriculture and forestry.

   • Degree Days Assessment

   On Monday, the CPC issues the weekly Degree Day Assessment, which
   reviews temperature and degree day statistics for the heating or
   cooling season to date, as well as the past week, and provides an
   outlook for the coming week.

   • Climate Assessments

   Technical review of global climate variations and their global impacts
   on seasonal and annual time scales.

   Diagnostic Discussions

   Diagnostic Discussions are issued to keep people informed of major
   climate events that have an impact on their daily lives.

   • El Nino-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) Diagnostic Discussion

   The CPC issues the ENSO Diagnostic Discussion around the middle of the
   month. The discussion addresses the current oceanic and atmospheric
   conditions in the Pacific and the seasonal climate outlook for the
   following one to three seasons.

   Special Outlook Discussions

   Special Outlook Discussions focus on seasonal climate events that have
   a near-term impact on our lives. An archive of past special outlook
   discussions can be found under Outreach/Publications.

   • Hurricane

   In May and August the CPC posts the Hurricane Outlook Discussion, which
   analyzes climate influences on and expected hurricane activity for the
   Atlantic and Caribbean basins during June to November.

   • United States Winter

   In October the CPC posts the Winter Outlook, which reviews climate
   influences on the upcoming winter season and the likely weather impacts
   on various regions of the United States.

   • African Seasonal Rainfall

   The CPC produces seasonal rainfall outlooks for various African regions
   prior to their rainy season.

   Bulletins

   Bulletins primarily review past climate conditions.

   • Climate Diagnostics Bulletin

   The monthly Bulletin reports on the previous months status of the
   ocean-atmosphere climate system in the tropics and extratropics and
   provides various seasonal outlooks. It is issued by the fifteenth of
   the month.

          • Tropical Highlights
          • Forecast Forum
          • Extratropical Highlights

   • Annual Winter Stratospheric Ozone Bulletin

   This annual Bulletin reviews stratospheric ozone variability and
   temperatures in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. The Northern
   Hemisphere Bulletin is issued in April and the Southern in December.

   • The Weekly Weather and Crop Bulletin
   This Bulletin, a joint United States Department of Commerce, National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and United States Department of
   Agriculture publication, reports on United States weather and crop
   status for the past week as well as growing conditions around the
   world. The bulletin is published on Tuesday.

   Publication of the web team, Climate Prediction Center.
   Last Updated: 9/4/2001
