http://www.ntia.doc.gov/accessibility.html

   About NTIA's Web Site

   Accessibility

   POLICY

   NTIA's policy is to work to ensure access to its Web sites for all
   Americans, including persons with disabilities. We will continue to
   work hard to achieve this goal. Your comments on this long-term goal
   and how to fulfill it would be appreciated. Please forward any comments
   to webmaster@ntia.doc.gov or call NTIA's Public Affairs Office at
   202-482-7002.

   SECTION 508 REQUIREMENTS

   On December 21, 2000, the Access Board published Final Rules on
   Standards for Electronic and Information Technology (NPRM) and on
   implementing Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act. As amended, Section
   508 of the Rehabilitation Act requires that each Federal department or
   agency ensure that individuals with disabilities have access to and use
   of information and data available to persons who do not have
   disabilities. The law applies to all Federal agencies when they
   develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and information
   technology. Federal agencies must ensure that this data and information
   is accessible to both Federal employees and the public. As of July
   2001, NTIA's website operations comply with the standards set by the
   Access Board in the December 2000 Final Rules.

   Most material posted on NTIA's Web site is available in html format, in
   pdf format*, and/or in a word processing format suitable for use by
   text-to-speech devices. "ALT" tags are used to provide a textual
   description for images when the images are used to convey information
   not included in the text. Information posted in multimedia formats,
   such as audio and video, may not have an alternative format available.
   Material posted prior to July 2001 may not be available from NTIA's
   site in a format suitable for use by text-to-speech devices. If you
   would like to receive a hard copy of any of these documents, or if you
   do have any problem accessing any of the other pages on this Web site,
   please contact webmaster@ntia.doc.gov or NTIA's Public Affairs office
   at 202-482-7002 for assistance.

   * http://access.adobe.com/ provides information on using pdf files by
   those with visual disabilities.
