http://fast.nist.gov/cfast.html

Explation of the CFAST Model
     __________________________________________________________________

   Overview

   CFAST is a zone model capable of predicting the environment in a
   multi-compartment structure subjected to a fire. It calculates the time
   evolving distribution of smoke and fire gases and the temperature
   throughout a building during a user-specified fire. CFAST is the result
   of a merger of ideas that came out of the FAST and the CCFM.VENTS
   development projects at NIST. The organization of the CFAST suite of
   programs is thus a combination of the two models. The primary focus of
   this paper is to lay out the details of CFAST, including the equations
   used and the assumptions made. This is done with a view toward
   modification of the computer code, and the variables which are used are
   discussed and made explicit. In addition, the structure of the model is
   shown. Although it may not be all inclusive, CFAST has demonstrated the
   ability to make reasonably good predictions. Also, it has been subject
   to close scrutiny to insure its correctness. Thus it forms a prototype
   for what constitutes a reasonable approach to modeling fire growth and
   the spread of smoke and toxic gases.

   With this level of detail, researchers not intimately involved in the
   development of CFAST should be able to add to the model in a
   straightforward manner. Independent or cooperative efforts to enhance
   the capabilites of the model are encouraged. Model developers can use
   this version of the model for open or proprietary additions to the
   model or as the basis for new models. While encouraging additions to
   the model, the role of the National Institute of Standards and
   Technology in the development must be clearly defined. NIST will
   continue to develop and document algorithms and the model in total.
   Depending on the extent others validate and document their additions to
   the model in the refereed literature, NIST may include them in its
   future versions. Thus, non-developers will continue to have access to
   an increasingly capable model from NIST, and perhaps from others as
   well.

   CFAST is a member of a class of models referred to as zone or finite
   element models. This means that each room is divided into a small
   number of volumes (called layers), each of which is assumed to be
   internally uniform. That is, the temperature, smoke and gas
   concentrations within each layer are assumed to be exactly the same at
   every point. In CFAST, each room is divided into two layers. Since
   these layers represent the upper and lower parts of the room,
   conditions within a room can only vary from floor to ceiling, and not
   horizontally. This assumption is based on experimental observations
   that in a fire, room conditions do stratify into two distinct layers.
   While we can measure variations in conditions within a layer, these are
   generally small compared to differences between the layers.

   CFAST is based on solving a set of equations that predict state
   variables (pressure, temperature and so on) based on the enthalpy and
   mass flux over small increments of time. These equations are derived
   from the conservation equations for energy mass, and momentum, and the
   ideal gas law. These conservation equations are always correct,
   everywhere. Thus any errors which might be made by the model cannot
   come from these equations, but rather come from simplifying assumptions
   or from processes left out because we don't know how to include them.
   Examples of each source of error will be highlighted in the following
   discussion.

  Fires

   Within CFAST, a fire is a source of fuel which is released at a
   specified rate. This fuel is converted into enthalpy (the conversion
   factor is the heat of combustion) and mass (the conversion factor is
   the yield of a particular species) as it burns. Burning can take place
   in the portion of the plume in the lower layer (if any), in the upper
   layer, or in a door jet. For an unconstrained fire, the burning will
   all take place within the fire plume. For a constrained fire, burning
   will take place where there is sufficient oxygen. Where insufficient
   oxygen is entrained into the fire plume, unburned fuel will
   successively move into and burn in: the upper layer of the fire room,
   the plume in the doorway to the next room, the upper layer of the next
   room, the plume in the doorway to the third room, and so forth until it
   is consumed or gets to the outside.

   The current version of CFAST includes the ability to track,
   independently, multiple fires in one or more rooms of the building.
   These fires are treated as totally separate entities, i.e., with no
   interaction of the plumes or radiative exchange between fires in a
   room.

   Like all current zone fire models, this version of CFAST does not
   include a pyrolysis model to predict fire growth. Rather pyrolysis
   rates for each fire modeled define the fire history. The similarity of
   that input to the real fire problem of interest will determine the
   accuracy of the resulting calculation. The user must account for any
   interactions between the fire and the pyrolysis rate. Planned future
   research should remove this limitation.

  Plumes and Layers

   Above any burning object, a plume is formed which is not considered to
   be a part of either layer, but which acts as a pump for enthalpy and
   mass from the lower layer into the upper layer (upward only). For the
   fire plume, CFAST does not use a point source approximation, but rather
   uses an empirical correlation to determine the amount of mass moved
   between layers by the plume.

   Two sources exist for moving enthalpy and mass between the layers
   within and between rooms. Within the room, the fire plume provides one
   source. The other source of mixing between the layers occurs at vents
   such as doors or windows. Here, there is mixing at the boundary of the
   opposing flows moving into and out of the room. The degree of mixing is
   based on an empirically-derived mixing relation. Both the outflow and
   inflow entrain air from the surrounding layers. The flow at vents is
   also modeled as a plume (called the door plume or jet), and uses the
   same equations as the fire plume, with two differences. First, an
   offset is calculated to account for entrainment within the doorway and
   second, the equations are modified to account for the rectangular
   geometry of vents compared to the round geometry of fire plumes. All
   plumes within the simulation entrain air from their surroundings
   according to an empirically-derived entrainment relation. Entrainment
   of relatively cool, non-smoke laden air adds oxygen to the plume and
   allows burning of the fuel. It also causes it to expand as the plume
   moves upward in the shape of an inverted cone. The entrainment in a
   vent is caused by bi-directional flow and results from a phenomenon
   called the Kelvin-Helmholz instability. It is not exactly the same as a
   normal plume, so some error arises when this entrainment is
   approximated by a normal plume entrainment algorithm.

   While experiments show that there is very little mixing between the
   layers at their interface, sources of convection such as radiators or
   diffusers of heating and air conditioning systems, and the downward
   flows of gases caused by cooling at walls, will cause such mixing.
   These are examples of phenomena which are not included because the
   theories are still under development. Also, the plumes are assumed not
   to be affected by other flows which may occur. For example, if the
   burning object is near the door the strong inflow of air will cause the
   plume axis to lean away from the door and affect entrainment of gases
   into the plume. Such effects are not included in the model.

   As discussed above, each room is divided into two layers, the upper and
   lower. At the start of the simulation, the layers in each room are
   initialized at ambient conditions and by default, the upper layer
   volume set to 0.001 of the room volume (an arbitrary, small value set
   to avoid the potential mathematical problems associated with dividing
   by zero). Other values can be set. As enthalpy and mass are pumped into
   the upper layer by the fire plume, the upper layer expands in volume
   causing the lower layer to decrease in volume and the interface to move
   downward. If the door to the next room has a soffit, there can be no
   flow through the vent from the upper layer until the interface reaches
   the bottom of that soffit. Thus in the early stages the expanding upper
   layer will push down on the lower layer air and force it into the next
   compartment through the vent by expansion.

   Once the interface reaches the soffit level, a door plume forms and
   flow from the fire room to the next room is initiated. As smoke flow
   from the fire room fills the second room, the lower layer of air in the
   second room is pushed down. As a result, some of this air flows into
   the fire room through the lower part of the connecting doorway (or
   vent). Thus, a vent between the fire room and connecting rooms can have
   simultaneous, opposing flows of air. All flows are driven by pressure
   differences and density differences that result from temperature
   differences and layer depths. Thus the key to getting the right flows
   is to correctly distribute the fire's mass and enthalpy between the
   layers.

  Vent Flow

   Flow through vents is the dominant phenomenon in a fire model because
   it fluctuates most rapidly and transfers the greatest amount of
   enthalpy on an instantaneous basis of all the source terms. Also, it is
   most sensitive to changes in the environment. Flow through vents comes
   in two varieties. The first we refer to as horizontal flow. It is the
   flow which is normally thought of in discussing fires. It encompasses
   flow through doors, windows and so on. The other is vertical flow and
   can occur if there is a hole in the ceiling or floor of a compartment.
   This latter phenomena is particularly important in two disparate
   situations: a ship, and the role of fire fighters doing roof venting.

   Flow through normal vents is governed by the pressure difference across
   a vent. There are two situations which give rise to flow through vents.
   The first, and usually thought of in fire problems, is that of air or
   smoke which is driven from a compartment by buoyancy. The second type
   of flow is due to expansion which is particularly important when
   conditions in the fire environment are changing rapidly. Rather than
   depending entirely on density differences between the two gases, the
   flow is forced by volumetric expansion. The earlier version of this
   model did not solve this part of the problem entirely correctly. In
   most cases the differences are small except for rapidly changing
   situations. However, these small differences become very important if
   we wish to follow flows due to small pressure differences, such as will
   occur in a mechanical ventilation system. Atmospheric pressure is about
   100 000 Pa, fires produce pressure changes from 1 to 1000 Pa and
   mechanical ventilation systems typically involve pressure differentials
   of about 1 to 100 Pa. In order to solve these interactions correctly,
   we must be able to follow pressure differences of 0.1 Pa out of 100 000
   Pa for the overall problem, or 10-4 for adjacent compartments.

  Heat Transfer

   Heat transfer is the mechanism by which the gas layers exchange energy
   with their surroundings. Convective transfer occurs from the layers to
   the room surfaces. The enthalpy thus transferred in the simulations
   conducts through the wall, ceiling, or floor in the direction
   perpendicular to the surface only. CFAST is more advanced than most
   models in this field since it allows different material properties to
   be used for the ceiling, floor, and walls of each room (although all
   the walls of a room must be the same). Additionally, CFAST uniquely
   allows each surface to be composed of up to three distinct layers for
   each surface, which are treated separately in the conduction
   calculation. This not only produces more accurate results, but allows
   the user to deal naturally with the actual building construction.
   Material thermophysical properties are assumed to be constant, although
   we know that they actually vary with temperature. This assumption is
   made because data over the required temperature range is scarce even
   for common materials, and because the variation is relatively small for
   most materials. However the user should recognize that some materials
   may change mechanical properties with temperature. These effects are
   not modeled.

   Radiative transfer occurs among the fire(s), gas layers and compartment
   surfaces (ceiling, walls and floor). This transfer is a function of the
   temperature differences and the emissivity of the gas layers as well as
   the compartment surfaces. For the fire and typical surfaces, emissivity
   values only vary over a small range. For the gas layers, however, the
   emissivity is a function of the concentration of species which are
   strong radiators: predominately smoke particulates, carbon dioxide, and
   water. Thus errors in the species concentrations can give rise to
   errors in the distribution of enthalpy among the layers, which results
   in errors in temperatures, resulting in errors in the flows. This
   illustrates just how tightly coupled the predictions made by CFAST can
   be.

  Species Concentration and Deposition

   When the layers are initialized at the start of the simulation, they
   are set to ambient conditions. These are the initial temperatures
   specified by the user, and 23 percent by mass (20.8 percent by volume)
   oxygen, 77 percent by mass (79 percent by volume) nitrogen, a mass
   concentration of water specified by the user as a relative humidity,
   and a zero concentration of all other species. As fuel is pyrolyzed,
   the various species are produced in direct relation to the mass of fuel
   burned (this relation is the species yield specified by the user for
   the fuel burning). Since oxygen is consumed rather than produced by the
   burning, the "yield" of oxygen is negative, and is set internally to
   correspond to the amount of oxygen needed to burn the fuel. Also,
   hydrogen cyanide and hydrogen chloride are assumed to be products of
   pyrolysis whereas carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, water, and soot are
   products of combustion.

   Each unit mass of a species produced is carried in the flow to the
   various rooms and accumulates in the layers. The model keeps track of
   the mass of each species in each layer, and knows the volume of each
   layer as a function of time. The mass divided by the volume is the mass
   concentration, which along with the molecular weight gives the
   concentration in volume percent or ppm as appropriate.

   CFAST uses a combustion chemistry scheme different from any other
   model. While others compute each species concentration with an
   independent yield fraction, CFAST maintains a carbon-hydrogen-oxygen
   balance. The scheme is applied in three places. The first is burning in
   the portion of the plume which is in the lower layer of the room of
   fire origin. The second is the portion in the upper layer, also in the
   room of origin. The third is in the vent flow which entrains air from a
   lower layer into an upper layer in an adjacent compartment. This is
   equivalent to solving the conservation equations for each species
   independently.

  Assumptions and Limitations

   CFAST consists of a collection of data and computer programs which are
   used to simulate the important time-dependent phenomena involved in
   fires. The major functions provided include calculation of:
     * the production of enthalpy and mass (smoke and gases) by one or
       more burning objects in one room, based on small- or large-scale
       measurements,
     * the buoyancy-driven as well as forced transport of this energy and
       mass through a series of specified rooms and connections (e.g.,
       doors, windows, cracks, ducts),
     * the resulting temperatures, smoke optical densities, and gas
       concentrations after accounting for heat transfer to surfaces and
       dilution by mixing with clean air.

   As can be seen from this list, fire modeling involves an
   interdisciplinary consideration of physics, chemistry, fluid mechanics,
   and heat transfer. In some areas, fundamental laws (conservation of
   mass, energy, and momentum) can be used, whereas in others empirical
   correlations or even "educated guesses" must be employed to bridge gaps
   in existing knowledge. The necessary approximations required by
   operational practicality result in the introduction of uncertainties in
   the results. The user should understand the inherent assumptions and
   limitations of the programs, and use these programs judiciously -
   including sensitivity analyses for the ranges of values for key
   parameters - in order to make estimates of these uncertainties. This
   section provides an overview of these assumptions and limitations.

  Specified Fire Limitations

   An important limitation of CFAST is the absence of a fire growth model.
   At the present time, it is not practical to adapt currently available
   fire growth models for direct inclusion in CFAST. Therefore, the system
   utilizes a user specified fire, expressed in terms of time specified
   rates of energy and mass released by the burning item(s). Such data can
   be obtained by measurements taken in large- and small-scale
   calorimeters, or from room burns. Examples of their associated
   limitations are as follows:
     * For a large-scale calorimeter, a product (e.g., chair, table,
       bookcase) is placed under a large collection hood and ignited by a
       50 kW gas burner (simulating a wastebasket) placed adjacent to the
       item for 120 s. The combustion process then proceeds under assumed
       "free-burning" conditions, and the release rate data are measured.
       Potential sources of uncertainty here include measurement errors
       related to the instrumentation, and the degree to which
       "free-burning" conditions are not achieved (e.g., radiation from
       the gases under the hood or from the hood itself, and restrictions
       in the air entrained by the object causing locally reduced oxygen
       concentrations affecting the combustion chemistry). There are
       limited experimental data for upholstered furniture which suggest
       that prior to the onset of flashover in a compartment, the
       influence of the compartment on the burning behavior of the item is
       small. The differences obtained from the use of different types or
       locations of ignition sources have not been explored.
     * Where small-scale calorimeter data are used, procedures are
       available to extrapolate to the behavior of a full-size item. These
       procedures are based on empirical correlations of data which
       exhibit significant scatter, thus limiting their accuracy. For
       example, for upholstered furniture, the peak heat release rates
       estimated by the "triangular approximation" method averaged 91
       percent (range 46 to 103 percent) of values measured for a group of
       26 chairs with noncombustible frames, but only 63 perecnt (range 46
       to 83 percent) of values measured for a group of 11 chairs with
       combustible frames . Also, the triangle neglects the "tails" of the
       curve; these are the initial time from ignition to significant
       burning of the item, and the region of burning of the combustible
       frame, after the fabric and filler are consumed.

   The provided data and procedures only relate directly to burning of
   items initiated by relatively large flaming sources. Little data are
   currently available for release rates under smoldering combustion, or
   for the high external flux and low oxygen conditions characteristic of
   post-flashover burning. While the model allows multiple items burning
   simultaneously, it does not account for the synergy of such multiple
   fires. Thus, for other ignition scenarios, multiple items burning
   simultaneously (which exchange energy by radiation and convection),
   combustible interior finish, and post-flashover conditions, the move
   can give estimates which are often nonconservative (the actual release
   rates would be greater than estimated). At present, the only sure way
   to account for all of these complex phenomena is to conduct a
   full-scale room burn and use the pyrolysis rates directly. Subsequent
   versions of the model will include detailed combustion models which can
   be used as the source fire.

  Zone Model and Transport Limitations

   The basic assumption of all zone fire models is that each room can be
   divided into a small number of control volumes, each of which is
   internally uniform in temperature and composition. In CFAST, all rooms
   have two zones except the fire room, which has an additional zone for
   the fire plume. The boundary between the two layers in a room is called
   the interface.

   It has generally been observed that in the spaces close to the fire,
   buoyantly stratified layers form. While in an experiment the
   temperature can be seen to vary within a given layer, these variations
   are small compared to the temperature difference between the layers.

   Beyond the basic zone assumptions, the model typically involves a
   mixture of established theory (e.g., conservation equations), empirical
   correlations where there are data but no theory (e.g., flow and
   entrainment coefficients), and approximations where there are neither
   (e.g., post-flashover combustion chemistry) or where their effect is
   considered secondary compared to the "cost" of inclusion. An example of
   a widely used assumption is that the estimated error from ignoring the
   variation of the thermal properties of structural materials with
   temperature is small. While this information would be fairly simple to
   add to the computer code, data are scarce over a broad range of
   temperatures even for the most common materials.

   With a highly complex model such as CFAST, the only reasonable method
   of assessing impacts of assumptions and limitations is through the
   verification process, which is ongoing at the Building and Fire
   Research Laboratory (BFRL). Until the results of this process are
   available, the user should be aware of the general limits of zone
   modeling and some specific manifestations in CFAST. These include the
   following:
    1. Burning can be constrained by the available oxygen. However, this
       "constrained fire" (a "type 2" fire, see page 17) is not subject to
       the influences of radiation to enhance its burning rate, but is
       influenced by the oxygen available in the room. If a large mass
       loss rate is entered, the model will follow this input until there
       is insufficient oxygen available for that quantity of fuel to burn
       in the room. The unburned fuel (sometimes called excess pyrolyzate)
       is tracked as it flows out in the door jet, where it can entrain
       more oxygen. If this mixture is within the user-specified flammable
       range, it burns in the door plume. If not, it will be tracked
       throughout the building until it eventually collects as unburned
       fuel or burns in a vent. The enthalpy released in the fire room and
       in each vent, as well as the total enthalpy released, is detailed
       in the output of the model. Since mass and enthalpy are conserved,
       the total will be correct. However, since combustion did not take
       place adjacent to the burning object, the actual mass burned could
       be lower than that specified by the user. The difference will be
       the unburned fuel.
    2. An oxygen combustion chemistry scheme is employed only in
       constrained (type 2) fires. Here user-specified hydrocarbon ratios
       and species yields are used by the model to predict concentrations.
       A balance among hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen molecules is
       maintained. Under some conditions, low oxygen can change the
       combustion chemistry, with an attendant increase in the yields of
       products of incomplete combustion such as CO. Guidance is provided
       on how to adjust the CO/CO2 ratio. However, not enough is known
       about these chemical processes to build this relationship into the
       model at the present time. Some data exist in reports of full-scale
       experiments (e.g., reference ) which can assist in making such
       determinations.
    3. The entrainment coefficients are empirically determined values.
       Small errors in these values will have a small effect on the fire
       plume or the flow in the plume of gases exiting the door of that
       room. In a multi-compartment model such as CFAST, however, small
       errors in each door plume are multiplicative as the flow proceeds
       through many compartments, possibly resulting in a significant
       error in the furthest rooms. The data available from validation
       experiments indicate that the values for entrainment coefficients
       currently used in most zone models produce good agreement for a
       three-compartment configuration. More data are needed for larger
       numbers of rooms to study this further.
    4. In real fires, smoke and gases are introduced into the lower layer
       of each room primarily due to mixing at connections between rooms
       and from the downward flows along walls (where contact with the
       wall cools the gas and reduces its buoyancy). Doorway mixing has
       been included in CFAST, using an empirically derived mixing
       coefficient. However, for smoke flow along a wall, the associated
       theory is only now being developed and is not included in the
       model. This may produce an underestimate of the lower layer
       concentrations. The most important manifestation of this
       underestimate will be the temperature distribution between the
       upper and lower layers caused by radiation.
    5. The only mechanisms provided in zone models to move enthalpy and
       mass into the upper layer of a room are two types of plumes: those
       formed by the burning item(s) in the fire room, and those formed by
       the jet of upper layer gases flowing through an opening. Thus, when
       the model calculates the flow of warm, lower layer gases through a
       low opening (e.g., the undercut of a "closed" door) by expansion of
       the smoke layer, they are assigned to the lower layer of the room
       into which they flowed where they remain until the upper layer in
       the source room drops to the level of the undercut and the door jet
       forms. Thus, for a time the receiving room can show a lower layer
       temperature which exceeds that in the upper layer (a physically
       impossible condition). A better understanding of the flow within
       compartments in the context of a zone fire model would allow us to
       remove this anomaly. However, no hazard will exist during this time
       as the temperatures are low, and no gas species produced by the
       fire are carried through the opening until the upper layer drops to
       the height of the undercut.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Click here for other NIST fire modeling software

   Click here to for access to data used by fire modeling software

   In order to read the documents provided in PDF format, you must have
   installed a version of the Adobe Acrobat Reader appropriate for your
   computer hardware and software. Click here to download the software.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Back to the CFAST home page.
