http://pacer.cadc.uscourts.gov/common/opinions/200201/00-3092a.txt

   United States Court of Appeals FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT
   Argued November 9, 2001 Decided January 29, 2002 No. 00-3092 United
   States of America, Appellee v. Hsin-Yung Yeh, a/k/a Yeh Hsin Yung,
   Appellant No. 00-3093 United States of America, Appellee v. Jian Zhou
   Li, Appellant --------- No. 00-3094 United States of America, Appellee
   v. Yuan Dian Wang, Appellant Appeals from the United States District
   Court for the District of Columbia (No. 99cr00425-01) (No.
   99cr00425-03) (No. 99cr00425-04) W. Gregg Spencer, Assistant Federal
   Public Defender, ar- gued the cause for the appellants. A. J. Kramer,
   Federal Public Defender, and Joanne Vasco and Michael J. McCar- thy,
   appointed by the court, were on brief. Susan A. Nellor, Assistant
   United States Attorney, argued the cause for the appellee. Roscoe C.
   Howard Jr., United States Attorney, and John R. Fisher, Joseph B.
   Valder and Kenneth W. Cowgill, Assistant United States Attorneys, were
   on brief. Before: Henderson and Tatel, Circuit Judges, and Silberman,
   Senior Circuit Judge. Opinion for the court filed by Circuit Judge
   Henderson. Karen LeCraft Henderson, Circuit Judge: Appellants Hsin-Yung
   Yeh (Yeh), Yuan Dian Wang (Wang) and Jian Zhou Li (Li) seek vacatur of
   their sentences and remand to the district court for resentencing. In
   their joint brief, Yeh and Wang offer one challenge each to their
   sentences and Li challenges his sentence on two grounds. Yeh contends
   that the district court erred in applying to his sentence a four-level
   enhancement pursuant to section 3B1.1(a) of the United States
   Sentencing Guidelines (U.S.S.G. or Guidelines) as "an organizer or
   leader of a criminal activity that involved five or more participants
   or was otherwise extensive." Wang asserts that the court erred in
   imposing a five-year mandatory minimum sentence of imprisonment un- der
   8 U.S.C. s 1324(a)(2)(B)(ii) for attempting to "bring[ ] [three or more
   unauthorized] aliens" into the United States "for the purpose of
   commercial advantage or private financial gain." Li makes the same
   assertion as Wang and argues in addition that the district court
   improperly applied a two-level enhancement under U.S.S.G. s 2L1.1(b)(5)
   for "intentionally or recklessly creating a substantial risk of death
   or serious bodily injury to another person." Their contentions are
   without merit and we therefore affirm the sentences of all three. I. On
   December 6, 1999 a United States Coast Guard aircraft sighted a
   freighter 400 miles south of Guatemala sailing towards the Guatemala-El
   Salavador coast.1 The Coast Guard Cutter MUNRO was called to
   investigate the vessel, which had no apparent identification or
   markings. To no avail, the MUNRO tried to communicate with the
   freighter. On December 7 the MUNRO launched an inflatable boat, the
   MUNRO 2, to approach the freighter and attempt com- munications once
   again. Upon questioning, Yeh and Wang-- who were on the freighter's
   main deck--told Coast Guard Petty Officer Andrew Ha, the MUNRO's
   Chinese interpreter, that the vessel was named the Wing Fung Lung (WFL)
   and that it was headed toward Panama with a load of plywood and six
   crewmen aboard. When the Coast Guard asked to board the WFL, Yeh
   refused. During this exchange, boarding team members on the MUNRO 2
   noticed numerous faces peering __________ 1 The following factual
   account is drawn largely from Wang and Li's presentence reports. See
   generally Sealed App. of Appellee, Tabs 1 and 2. out of portholes
   beneath the WFL's main deck. Suspecting that Yeh and Wang were
   smuggling aliens, the MUNRO dropped back from the WFL to feign
   disinterest in the vessel's activities in order to see if the WFL's
   crew would permit the suspected aliens to appear on deck. On December
   9, lookouts aboard the MUNRO observed red flares over the WFL and
   scores of people frantically waving their arms on the WFL's deck.
   Recognizing the flares as an international signal of distress, the
   MUNRO launched both of its small boats with rescue and boarding teams.
   Once aboard the WFL, the teams determined that the vessel was flooding
   due to mechanical problems with the engines. The boarding team counted
   over two hundred aliens on the main deck. Coast Guard security officers
   identified certain crew members they believed to be shipboard "enforc-
   ers" and separated the fifteen to twenty enforcers from the aliens to
   keep them from inciting the aliens to violence. When the officers began
   handcuffing the enforcers, Yeh refused to comply with directions. He
   struggled with the officers and managed to seize a revolver from one of
   them. Yeh shot at Officer Robert Borowczak but missed. Yeh was then
   successfully restrained and handcuffed. On deck, the Coast Guard found
   one life raft and only twenty life jackets, enough for the enforcers,
   but not the aliens, to escape the WFL in an emergency. Coast Guard
   engineers determined that the engines were inoperable and that the ship
   had to be towed to Guatemala. The Guatemalan authorities granted the
   Coast Guard permission to tow the WFL into port. During the tow, the
   Coast Guard provided the aliens with much-needed food and medical
   attention, after learning that they had been without food for over
   forty-eight hours and without water for over twenty-four hours. The WFL
   had only one small toilet area, which was reserved for females. Most of
   the aliens had been forced to relieve themselves in their sleeping
   areas. Rats and cockroaches infested the sleeping quarters and food
   lockers. The aliens were kept below deck during daylight hours and were
   only infrequently allowed on deck for a few hours at night. When
   questioned by the Coast Guard, they stated that their desti- nation was
   the United States and that the cost of the trip was $40,000 per person.
   The fee was to be paid off or worked off upon arrival in the United
   States. Appellant Yeh pleaded guilty to attempting to "bring[ ]
   [unauthorized] aliens" into the United States for financial gain, in
   violation of 8 U.S.C. s 1324(a)(2), to aiding and abetting the same, in
   violation of 18 U.S.C. s 2, and to assaulting a federal officer while
   armed, in violation of 18 U.S.C. s 111(a)(1), (b). At Yeh's sentencing
   on September 14, 2000 the district court stated that it believed a
   four-level enhancement under U.S.S.G. s 3B1.1(a) was applicable. Wayne
   Justice, captain of the MUNRO, testified that Officer Borowczak led the
   MUNRO's boarding party and was given the task of deter- mining who was
   in charge of the WFL. He stated that Borowczak observed Yeh giving
   orders to the aliens to start fires and jump ship. Borowczak himself
   testified that Yeh was indeed the shipboard leader and that the other
   enforcers did not make a move without Yeh's approval. Petty Officer Ha
   testified that Yeh volunteered the location of the WFL's documentation,
   knowledge that suggested Yeh's leadership role. Finally, at Wang's
   earlier sentencing, Wang had testi- fied that Yeh sailed the ship and
   possessed one of the two satellite phones on the WFL. The district
   court concluded from the foregoing testimony that there was sufficient
   evi- dence to support a four-level enhancement under section 3B1.1(a)
   for Yeh's role as an "organizer or leader of a criminal activity that
   involved five or more participants or was otherwise extensive."
   Appellant Wang pleaded guilty to attempting to "bring[ ] [unauthorized]
   aliens" into the United States for financial gain, in violation of 8
   U.S.C. s 1324(a)(2), and to aiding and abetting the same, in violation
   of 18 U.S.C. s 2. With the aid of an interpreter, Wang stated that he
   had signed and understood the plea agreement and that he understood his
   possible prison term to be "not less than three years and up to ten
   years for the first two aliens" and "not less than five years and up to
   fifteen years for each of the third through the two hundred[th]
   aliens." App. of Appellants, Tab B, at 9. At his sentencing on August
   25, 2000 Wang testified that he had boarded the WFL as a passenger but
   that, as a fisher- man, he was subsequently asked to pilot the WFL in
   ex- change for a reduction in his $40,000 fee. Wang admitted that he
   knew that bringing unauthorized aliens into the United States was
   illegal and that by piloting the ship he was helping to get the WFL to
   its ultimate destination. Although Wang had earlier acknowledged the
   court's obli- gation to impose a five-year minimum sentence on a defen-
   dant who transports three or more aliens into the United States for
   financial gain, he protested that he had attempted to smuggle only
   himself. The district court concluded, how- ever, that "legally" Wang
   was "helping with the enterprise" of bringing other unauthorized
   aliens. Id., Tab C, at 37. The court therefore sentenced Wang to the
   five-year mandatory minimum sentence of imprisonment under 8 U.S.C. s
   1324(a)(2)(B)(ii). Appellant Li pleaded guilty to attempting to "bring[
   ] [un- authorized] aliens" into the United States for financial gain,
   in violation of 8 U.S.C. s 1324(a)(2), and to aiding and abetting the
   same, in violation of 18 U.S.C. s 2. The district court determined that
   Li had signed and understood the plea agreement and that he understood
   his possible prison term to be "not less than three years and up to ten
   years for each of the first two aliens" and "not less than five years
   and up to fifteen years for each of the 3rd [through] the 200th
   alien[s]." App. of Appellee, Tab 2, at 11. Li did not contest the
   government's assertions that he was one of the chief "enforcer[s] on
   the boat" and that he bore the responsibility "for keeping order, for
   keeping the aliens in their places[,] ... for distributing food and
   water to them ... [and for] permitt[ing] them to come up on top of the
   deck to get air and to exercise." Id., Tab 2, at 18, 22. He also
   admitted that he performed these tasks "to save a couple of thousand
   dollars" of his $40,000 fare. App. of Appellants, Tab D, at 64. The
   district court determined that by signing his plea agreement, Li (like
   Wang) had acknowledged that the court was obligated to impose a
   five-year minimum sentence be- cause Li had aided and abetted in
   bringing three or more unauthorized aliens into the United States for
   financial gain. At Li's sentencing on August 29-30, 2000 the court also
   concluded that at Li's hands the aliens had endured "a filthy hold with
   terrible sanitation and inadequate food." Id., Tab D, at 60. Because Li
   was responsible for "keeping order" among the aliens and for
   "distributing food and water to them," App. of Appellee, Tab 2, at 18,
   the district court added a two-level enhancement under U.S.S.G. s
   2L1.1(b)(5) for "intentionally or recklessly creating a substantial
   risk of death or serious bodily injury" to them. II. In reviewing the
   appellants' sentencing challenges, which we address seriatim, we
   "accept the findings of fact of the district court unless they are
   clearly erroneous" and "give due deference to the district court's
   application of the [G]uidelines to the facts." 18 U.S.C. s 3742(e); see
   also United States v. McCoy, 242 F.3d 399, 403-04 (D.C. Cir.), cert.
   denied, 122 S. Ct. 166 (2001). We review issues of law de novo. See
   McCoy, 242 F.3d at 404; United States v. Drew, 200 F.3d 871, 876 (D.C.
   Cir. 2000). On three grounds, Appellant Yeh challenges the district
   court's application of a four-level enhancement under U.S.S.G. s
   3B1.1(a) for his actions as an "organizer or leader of a criminal
   activity that involved five or more participants or was otherwise
   extensive." All three of his arguments are without merit. First, Yeh
   argues that "there was insufficient evidence of a fifth
   participant"--besides Yeh, Wang, Li and their co- defendant Lin Jian
   (who does not appeal here)--in the smug- gling activity. Br. of
   Appellants at 7. This assertion has no support in the record, which
   instead indicates the involvement of at least five participants, if not
   more. Li testified at his (Li's) sentencing hearing that three men
   named Ton Wei Ki, "Little Japanese" and Da Sa supervised Li in his
   capacity as an enforcer. Li stated that "it's no secret ... some of the
   most culpable persons were not indicted in this case," includ- ing
   Little Japanese. App. of Appellants, Tab D, at 28. He also told the
   district court that Little Japanese was in charge of security and
   ordered him to "help keep peace [in] the bottom of the boat." Id. As
   the government points out, this evidence is undisputed. At the very
   least, then, the district court did not clearly err in finding as a
   fact that there were five or more participants in the smuggling
   operation. Appli- cation Note 1 to section 3B1.1 states that "[a]
   'participant' is a person who is criminally responsible for the
   commission of the offense, but need not have been convicted." U.S.S.G.
   Manual s 3B1.1 cmt. n.1 (2001). There can be no question on this record
   that Little Japanese was at least as criminally responsible as his
   subordinate, Li, was.2 Thus, Little Japa- nese qualifies as a
   "participant" under section 3B1.1(a), bring- ing the headcount to five.
   Next, Yeh contends that even if the evidence supports a finding of five
   or more participants, the four-level enhance- ment under section
   3B1.1(a) must nonetheless be set aside because "the district court
   failed to identify [the fifth] partici- pant." Br. of Appellants at 7
   (emphasis added). He argues that the enhancement "cannot apply unless
   the sentencing court 'identifies a participant over whom the defendant
   exer- cised managerial or organizational control.' " Id. at 8 (quot-
   ing United States v. Luca, 183 F.3d 1018, 1024 (9th Cir. 1999)). Yeh's
   argument is unavailing. In United States v. Sobin, 56 F.3d 1423 (D.C.
   Cir.), cert. denied, 516 U.S. 936 (1995), we held that a defendant who
   did not object at sentencing to the district court's failure to make
   factual findings to support a four-level enhancement under section
   3B1.1(a) "waived his right to challenge the enhancement on this
   ground." Sobin, 56 F.3d at 1428; cf. United States v. Wider, 951 F.2d
   1283, 1287 (D.C. Cir. 1991) (following "gener- al rule ... that a
   federal appellate court does not consider an __________ 2 Li argued as
   much at his sentencing hearing. See App. of Appellants, Tab D, at
   27-29. issue not passed upon below" (quoting Singleton v. Wulff, 428
   U.S. 106, 120 (1976))). In such circumstances, "we are bound to uphold
   the district court's enhancement if supported by the record." Sobin, 56
   F.3d at 1428. As we discussed supra, the record supports the district
   court's finding of a fifth partici- pant. Furthermore, as we have
   cautioned elsewhere, "it would be both anomalous and inefficient to
   place [the appel- lant] in a better position for having neglected to
   raise a relevant [sentencing] argument" in district court, United
   States v. Whren, 111 F.3d 956, 960 (D.C. Cir. 1997), cert. denied, 522
   U.S. 1119 (1998); had Yeh objected at sentencing to the district
   court's omission, the court could easily have cited back to him the
   five perpetrators--Yeh himself, Wang, Li, Lin Jian and Little
   Japanese--thereby preempting Yeh's "failure-to-identify" ground of
   appeal. Finally, Yeh claims that the government failed to prove by a
   preponderance of the evidence that he was an organizer or leader of the
   smuggling activity. Once again, his contention lacks merit. Abundant
   evidence supports the district court's imposition of the four-level
   enhancement under section 3B1.1(a) for Yeh's role as an organizer or
   leader. First, at his plea hearing, Yeh did not contest the
   government's asser- tion that were it not for him, "the boat and the
   people would not have made it to America." App. of Appellee, Tab 2, at
   18, 22. Second, at Yeh's sentencing, his counsel conceded that Yeh was
   "in charge of maintaining ... the operation of the boat." App. of
   Appellants, Tab A, at 5. Third, Wang testi- fied at his sentencing that
   Yeh "was in charge of the boat" and that "[w]henever phone calls came
   in from Taiwan" giving instructions about the smuggling scheme, "Yeh
   was the one to receive it [sic]." Id., Tab C, at 29. Fourth, the fact
   that Yeh denied the Coast Guard's request to board the WFL suggests his
   authority to act on behalf of those aboard. Fifth, Officer Borowczak
   testified that Yeh "was the one all the other enforcers ... looked to
   before they made any move at all." App. of Appellee, Tab 4, at 37.
   Sixth, Officer Ha's testimony that Yeh told him (Ha) where to find the
   WFL's documentation also suggests Yeh's responsibility for the en- tire
   ship. Yeh points out that some of the evidence could lead to
   conclusions other than the one the district court reached-- that he was
   an organizer or leader of the smuggling opera- tion. For example, he
   observes that his knowledge of the ship's documentation might merely
   "substantiate his role as an engineer who had knowledge of ... the
   ship's engines."3 Br. of Appellants at 11. Nevertheless, because we
   "give due deference to the district court's application of the
   [G]uidelines to the facts," 18 U.S.C. s 3742(e), we cannot say that the
   court erred in adding a four-level enhancement to Yeh's __________ 3
   Yeh suggests that the facts of the Seventh Circuit's decision in United
   States v. Parmelee, 42 F.3d 387 (7th Cir. 1994), cert. denied, 516 U.S.
   813 (1995), are "strikingly similar to those in the instant case." Br.
   of Appellants at 10. We disagree. In Parmelee, the Seventh Circuit
   found that the district court had erroneously im- posed a three-level
   enhancement for Parmelee's role as a "manager or supervisor" in an
   alien smuggling ring. Parmelee, 42 F.3d at 395. According to the
   court's recital of the facts, Parmelee met unauthorized Polish aliens
   at Grimsby Airpark, a rural airstrip located just north of the United
   States-Canada border, whence he flew them in a small Piper Cherokee
   airplane to DuPage County Airport in West Chicago, Illinois. Id. at
   389. From the airport, Parmelee drove them to a prearranged rendezvous
   point in Chica- go, where he delivered the aliens to one of his
   co-defendants, Tadeusz Sobiecki. Id. In attempting to demonstrate
   Parmelee's role as a "manager or supervisor," the government relied on
   his "receipt of money from Sobiecki for his services, his purchase of a
   beeper to inform Sobiecki of flight departures and arrivals, and his
   upkeep and rental of the plane." Id. at 395. The court found, however,
   that such activities might have been "merely inherent in Parmelee's
   role as pilot and [did] not necessarily indicate that Parmelee managed
   or supervised others." Id. Contrary to Yeh's assertions, the facts here
   are in nowise similar to Parmelee's. Unlike Yeh, Parmelee did not have
   (and could not have had) aboard his small aircraft several "enforcers"
   who "were responsible for keeping the aliens in their places" and
   "looked to [him] before they made any move at all." Moreover, unlike
   the months-long smuggling operation aboard the "slow boat [from]
   China," which involved hundreds of aliens, the brief flight aboard
   offense level for his role as "an organizer or leader of a criminal
   activity that involved five or more participants or was otherwise
   extensive." Accordingly, we affirm the en- hancement. Appellants Wang
   and Li both dispute the district court's imposition of five-year
   mandatory minimum sentences of im- prisonment under 8 U.S.C. s
   1324(a)(2) for attempting to bring three or more unauthorized aliens
   into the United States "for the purpose of commercial advantage or
   private financial gain." Their challenge fails. Wang and Li claim that
   they were attempting to smuggle themselves only into the United States,
   that each therefore committed only one violation of the statute and
   that under section 1324(a)(2) the three-year mandatory minimum for a
   first violation applies.4 Their argument is countered by the clearly
   expressed will of the Congress and the undisputed facts of this case.
   In 1996, the Congress amended section 1324(a)(2) in pass- ing the
   Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsi- bility Act (IIRIRA).
   See IIRIRA of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-21 208, 110 Stat. 3009-546. Before
   the amendment, section 1324(a)(2) mandated that punishment be
   administered __________ the Piper Cherokee, which involved only a
   handful of aliens, re- quired less supervision. 4 Wang and Li also
   assert that "the penalty provisions of 8 U.S.C. s 1324(a)(2)(B)(ii) are
   unconstitutionally vague and ambiguous" and that "the rule of lenity
   should apply to all sentences imposed in this case." Br. of Appellants
   at 13. We reject their "conclusory asser- tions"--which occupy no more
   than one sentence of their brief-- because they are not properly before
   this court. See Wash. Legal Clinic for the Homeless v. Barry, 107 F.3d
   32, 39 (D.C. Cir. 1997) (litigant did not properly raise issue by
   addressing it in "cursory fashion" with only "bare-bones arguments"
   (quotation omitted)); see also Ry. Labor Executives' Ass'n v. United
   States R.R. Ret. Bd., 749 F.2d 856, 859 n.6 (D.C. Cir. 1984) (declining
   to resolve question "on the basis of briefing which consisted of only
   three sentences ... and no discussion of the relevant statutory text
   ... or relevant case law"). "for each transaction constituting a
   violation of this para- graph, regardless of the number of aliens
   involved." See United States v. Ortega-Torres, 174 F.3d 1199, 1201
   (11th Cir.) (quoting 8 U.S.C. s 1324(a)(2) (1996)) (emphasis added),
   cert. denied, 528 U.S. 911 (1999). In section 203(d)--entitled
   "Applying Certain Penalties on a Per Alien Basis"--the IIRIRA deleted
   "for each transaction ... regardless of the number of aliens involved"
   and replaced it with the current phraseology, "for each alien in
   respect to whom a [smuggling] violation ... occurs." Ortega-Torres, 174
   F.3d at 1201 (quot- ing IIRIRA, Pub. L. No. 104-208, 110 Stat.
   3009-546, 3009-566) (emphasis added). Like the Eleventh Circuit, we are
   of the opinion that "[i]n changing the text of the statute, Congress
   clearly expressed its intent that district courts determine the
   penalties for alien smuggling offenses based on the number of aliens
   the defen- dant[s] smuggled into the United States." Id. Both Wang and
   Li admitted to conduct amounting to an attempt to bring into the United
   States all 200 aliens aboard the WFL. Wang acknowledged that he had
   piloted the WFL in exchange for a reduction in his $40,000 fee. Li
   conceded that he was one of the chief "enforcer[s] on the boat," App.
   of Appellee, Tab 2, at 18, 22, and that he acted in that capacity "to
   save a couple of thousand dollars" of his $40,000 fare, App. of
   Appellants, Tab D, at 64. Accordingly, we affirm the district court's
   imposi- tion of five-year sentences upon Wang and Li. Appellant Li also
   disputes the district court's application of a two-level enhancement
   pursuant to U.S.S.G. s 2L1.1(b)(5) for "intentionally or recklessly
   creating a substantial risk of death or serious bodily injury" to the
   aliens aboard the WFL. Because Li did not raise his section 2L1.1(b)(5)
   objection at sentencing, we may reverse for "plain error" only, see
   United States v. Dawson, 990 F.2d 1314, 1316 (D.C. Cir. 1993), that is,
   error "so obvious and substantial or so serious and mani- fest that it
   affects the very integrity of the trial process." Id. (quotations
   omitted). Li claims that he "had no control over the conditions aboard
   the [WFL], ... was not responsible for [them] and should not be held
   accountable for them." Br. of Appellants at 15. His assertion
   disregards the record. Li admitted to the district court that he was
   responsible--and received compensation--"for keeping order, for keeping
   the aliens in their places[,] ... for distributing food and water to
   them ... [and for] permitt[ing] them to come up on top of the deck to
   get air and to exercise." App. of Appellee, Tab 2, at 18, 22.
   Notwithstanding Li's responsibilities, the aliens had suffered without
   food or water for at least several hours by the time the MUNRO arrived.
   This fact alone--to say nothing of the appalling conditions below
   deck--is ample evidence that Li "recklessly creat[ed] a substantial
   risk of ... serious bodily injury" to the aliens he was paid to help
   bring into the United States. The district court, therefore, committed
   no error, plain or otherwise, in applying to Li's offense level a
   two-level enhancement pursuant to section 2L1.1(b)(5). For the
   foregoing reasons, the sentences of Yeh, Wang and Li are Affirmed.
