http://ccfc.ca.gov


   [calbar.jpg]

[newblocks1.gif]

                                                  Welcome!

                                                                                                  [newlogo1.gif]


   Read the most current CCFC information and find the latest additions to
   our website
                         What Prop 10 is all about!
     CCFC Background, Programmatic, Legal, Administrative, Legislative &
   Employment Information
         Your path to information related to the County Commissions
         State Commission Meetings Calendar, Minutes and Highlights
             Newsletters, Brochures and other printed materials
               CCFC Funding Opportunities, RFPs and Contracts
                    Find CCFC Audits and Annual Reports
      CCFC Research & Program Evaluation, Effective/Emerging Practices
              Various links & resources to parenting websites
            Press Releases from CCFC (In Spanish when available)

                                 [Web F.A.Q]

                                  [SITEMAP]

                             Get Acrobat Reader

   Mission
     Current research in brain development clearly indicates that the
   emotional, physical and intellectual environment that a child is
   exposed to in the early years of life has a profound impact on how the
   brain is organized. The experiences a child has with respect to parents
   and caregivers significantly influence how a child will function in
   school and later in life. The California Children and Families Act of
   1998 is designed to provide, on a community-by-community basis, all
   children prenatal to five years of age with a comprehensive, integrated
   system of early childhood development services. Through the integration
   of health care, quality child care, parent education and effective
   intervention programs for families at risk, children and their parents
   and caregivers will be provided with the tools necessary to foster
   secure, healthy and loving attachments. These attachments will lay the
   emotional, physical and intellectual foundation for every child to
   enter school ready to learn and develop the potential to become
   productive, well-adjusted members of society.



                                [Picture2.jpg]

                               [ Contact Us! ]
                  California Children & Families Commission
                           501 J Street, Suite 530
                            Sacramento, CA 95814
                            Phone: (916) 323-0056
                             Fax: (916) 323-0069

   Disclaimer:
   Every attempt was made to be sure that the information contained in the
   following pages was valid at the time of publication. The California
   Children and Families Commission reserves the right to make changes and
   improvements at any time, without notice, and assumes no liability for
   damages incurred directly or indirectly as a result of errors,
   omissions, or discrepancies.


   [gis%20services.gif]
