http://www.hcqualitycommission.gov

   President's Advisory Commission on Consumer Protection and Quality in
   the Health Care Industry

   About

   Charter

   Commission Membership

   Meetings

   Press Releases

   Comments &
   Questions
   info@ahrq.gov

   FirstGov: One-stop access to all online U.S. Federal Government
   resources

   Advisory Commission's
   Final Report

      The President's Advisory Commission on Consumer Protection and Quality
      in the Health Care Industry completed its work on March 12, 1998, and
      achieved consensus on its final report. Entitled "Quality First: Better
      Health Care for All Americans," the report recommends steps to provide
      a "national commitment to improving health care quality."

      Printed copies of the report are available by calling, 800-358-9295 or
      writing to Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Publications
      Clearinghouse, P.O. Box 8547, Silver Spring, MD 20907-8547.

      To view the Commission's interim report, "Consumer Bill of Rights and
      Responsibilities," or a summary of the document, please click the
      appropriate links.

      The Commission was created by President Clinton to "advise the
      President on changes occurring in the health care system and recommend
      such measures as may be necessary to promote and assure health care
      quality and value, and protect consumers and workers in the health care
      system."

      The Commission was comprised of 32 members, selected from the private
      sector. Members included representatives of consumers, institutional
      health care providers, health care professionals, other health care
      workers, health care insurers, health care purchasers, State and local
      government representatives, and experts in health care quality,
      financing, and administration. The Commission was Co-Chaired by the
      Secretary of Health and Human Services, Donna E. Shalala, and the
      Secretary of Labor, Alexis M. Herman.

      The President had asked the Commission to develop a "Consumer Bill of
      Rights" in health care and to provide him with recommendations to
      enforce those rights at the Federal, State, and local level. The
      Commission's final report was due to the President by March 30, 1998.
