http://mmr.osmre.gov

   Welcome to the Mine Map Repository web site. Comments, questions and
   requests are welcome!

U. S. Department of the Interior [Osmlogo_.gif]

Office of Surface Mining

Mine Map Repositories

     * Introduction
     * Mission
     * History
     * Repository Information
     * Services and Products Available
     * Frequently Asked Questions
     * Other Useful Links
     * Contact Information
     * Office of Surface Mining Home Page


   [Dividing Line Image]

  Introduction

   This page provides information on the U.S. Department of Interior,
   Office of Surface Mining, Mine Map Repositories located in Pittsburgh
   and Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. The repositories serve as reference
   facilities for information on abandoned surface and underground mines
   throughout the United States.

   The Office of Surface Mining was established by Congress with passage
   of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA), Public Law
   95-87, in 1977. In that law, Congress sought to establish a nationwide
   program to protect society and the environment from the adverse effects
   of surface and underground coal mining operations, and assure that the
   coal supply essential to the Nation’s energy requirements and to its
   economic and social well-being is provided. The Mine Map Repositories
   exist to satisfy the Title II requirements of SMCRA.

   [Dividing Line Image]

  Mission

   The Mine Map Repositories support Title IV and Title V activities of
   SMCRA. The repositories are in business to provide our customers with
   an expert service ranging from evaluating related data for economic
   analysis to assessing their potential risk associated with underground
   mining. Through our analysis of mine maps and related information, we
   assist both the private and public sectors in industrial and commercial
   development, highway construction and the preservation of public
   health, safety and welfare. In addition we collect, reproduce and
   maintain a national inventory of mine maps and supporting documentation
   for private and public interests.

   [Dividing Line Image]

  History

   In fiscal 1970, the U.S. Bureau of Mines initially funded four regional
   mine map repositories located in Denver, Colorado, Spokane, Washington,
   and Pittsburgh and Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. This repository system
   was set up to obtain and microfilm maps of past mining operations in
   the United States. High priority was assigned to mine maps of areas
   where the adverse impact to the environment or public safety was most
   severe.

   In late 1984, responsibility for the Pittsburgh and Wilkes-Barre
   Repositories was transferred to the Office of Surface Mining, with the
   Denver and Spokane Repositories remaining with the Bureau of Mines.
   During fiscal year 1996, the Bureau of Mines closed their Denver and
   Spokane Repositories and all maps and related information were
   transferred to the Pittsburgh Repository. With the acquisition of these
   western mine maps, the Pittsburgh Repository expanded its mission
   nationally.

   The Pittsburgh Repository continues to collect and archive mine maps
   and to maintain a strong liaison with state and federal agencies. The
   Wilkes-Barre Repository is maintained as an archival facility for the
   anthracite coal region of Pennsylvania and no longer actively collects
   mine maps. However, maps are still available for viewing by the public.

   [Dividing Line Image]

  Repository Information

   Mine maps are acquired through an established vigorous outreach program
   with emphasis directed toward state and federal environmental agencies.
   Other sources included in this outreach are mining companies,
   engineering and consulting firms, surveying companies, universities and
   private citizens. Those wishing to donate mine maps for processing and
   archiving may do so by contacting the Pittsburgh Mine Map Repository.
   All maps donated are returned to the donor.

   Information contained on the mine maps are used to solve a wide variety
   of engineering, environmental, and mining problems. Mine map
   information is necessary for decisions on land use and development, the
   purchase of property, environmental protection, etc. The most frequent
   users of this information are state and federal agencies, mining
   companies, consultants, and engineering firms. Other users include
   research and planning organizations, real estate developers, highway
   engineers, pollution control boards, city and industrial planners, oil
   and gas companies, public organizations, special interest groups,
   universities, architectural firms, transit authorities, attorneys,
   private citizens and law enforcement agencies. Below is a list of
   information derived from mine maps:
     * Mine and company names
     * Main and secondary roads, haul roads, railroads, and mine tipples
     * Creeks, streams, rivers, ponds and lakes
     * Property ownership (mineral and/or surface), adjoining coal
       companies, towns, cities, and old railroad towns
     * Districts, townships, sections, ranges, counties, and
       municipalities
     * Latitudes and longitudes, elevation bench marks, surface
       elevations, north arrows, distance scales, and dates
     * Coal outcrop seam designation, seam thickness, coal elevations, and
       coal reserves
     * Man-ways, emergency exits, mine openings, barrier pillars, and
       ventilation facilities
     * Power and gas lines and gas and oil-wells
     * Preparation plants, storage areas, and water and power distribution
       facilities
     * Bore holes, mine seals, surface mining, and federal/state
       identification numbers

   Below are examples of the importance mine map information has been or
   is being used to address a variety of purposes.
     * Mining companies use mine maps in preparation of permit
       applications for new mines or for extensions of existing mines to
       identify and indicate the location and extent of any abandoned
       mines within the proposed permit and adjacent areas.
     * Local developers and real estate agencies are dependent on mine map
       information to assist them in making decisions relative to land
       use, property investigations, foundation design, etc.
     * Federal and state agencies utilize mine map information to conduct
       health and safety activities, such as mine rescue operations and
       mine sealing, and mitigate adverse environmental impacts resulting
       from landslides, subsidence, acid mine drainage, mine fires, etc.
     * Consultants and engineering firms use mine maps as a basic source
       of geological and engineering data to assist them with their
       clients’ projects.
     * Energy interests use mine maps to estimate reserves and locate and
       develop alternative energy supplies.
     * Private citizens use mine maps to determine the potential for
       subsidence in residential areas.

   [Dividing Line Image]

  Services and Products Available

   The Pittsburgh Mine Map Repository is currently reengineering the
   operation to a "state of the art" mapping center.  When completely
   operational, customers will be able to make inquiries and obtain
   mapping information through our web site or email.  An update as to the
   new services and products will be provided upon completion of our web
   site and electronic inventory.

   Currently, requests for mine map information from the repositories may
   be made in writing, or by telephone, fax, email or appointment. Those
   who visit the repositories are insured the most accurate map-related
   information available.

   To facilitate the use of information, the Pittsburgh Repository offers
   products for sale at a nominal cost to the public: scanned mine map
   images in .TIF format on compact disc, state map indices listing the
   inventory of mine maps, and photographic prints of mine maps.

   Customer services include:
     * Personal visits to the repositories
     * Mine map analysis
     * Letter, facsimile, email and phone requests accepted
     * Applications and information for Pennsylvania Mine Subsidence
       Insurance and insurance referrals for residents outside
       Pennsylvania
     * Mine map images on compact disc and photographic prints
       (Reproductions are immediately available at the Pittsburgh
       Repository. The Wilkes-Barre office provides only photographic
       prints and requires written approval from the mineral owner prior
       to the release of information.)

   Technical services include:
     * Computerized research assistance

          Specific mine information is obtainable through various search
          capabilities built into a computerized system exclusive to the
          Pittsburgh Repository. This information can be listed by county,
          quadrangle, mine name, mine type, company name, commodity, mine
          seam, latitude and longitude, or universal transverse mercator
          coordinates.

     * Mine map and topographical map translations

          Through our analysis of coal mine maps, we can determine coal
          elevations, coal seams and outcrops, company operators, coal
          reserves, coal thickness, dates of mining, man ways, emergency
          exits, mine openings, barrier pillars and ventilation
          facilities. For non-coal mine maps, information such as ore
          type, mine levels, ore reserves, shaft locations, ore thickness
          and mine depths are analyzed. Information from topographic maps
          consists of latitudes and longitudes, elevation bench marks,
          surface elevations, distance scales, power lines, gas and oil
          wells, districts, townships, sections, ranges, counties and
          municipalities, main and secondary roads, haul roads, railroads
          and all waterways.

   Products available for purchase at Pittsburgh only:
     * Map prints - $2.75 each
     * Research analysis - $25.00 per hour (adjusted to increments of 30
       minutes)
     * Map images in .TIF format on compact disc - $25.00 per hour
       generation time (adjusted to increments of 15 minutes) plus a $1.00
       charge per disc

   [Dividing Line Image]

  Frequently Asked Questions

   What problems can be caused by past coal mining? The problems
   associated with past coal mining activity that can adversely affect
   structures, people and property are:
     * mine subsidence;
     * landslides;
     * mine drainage (including sudden mine blowouts);
     * abandoned mine openings (e.g., portals and mine shafts);
     * abandoned structures (e.g., tipples);
     * dangerous mine gases (e.g., methane and black damp);
     * mine fires; and
     * coal refuse fires.

   Please remember to NEVER ENTER AN ABANDONED MINE OPENING OR STRUCTURE.
   If you believe that any of these problem types might be a threat in
   your community, you should contact your state environmental agency for
   an evaluation. Such agencies can determine whether your problem
   qualifies for state or federal remediation. There is no assistance for
   property losses beyond subsidence insurance, which usually only applies
   for mine subsidence damage.

   What is mine subsidence? Mine subsidence is the sinking down of the
   earth's crust as a result of a structural failure in an active or
   abandoned underground mine. These underground failures can occur at any
   time and can result in damage or endangerment to property or persons.
   Some failures occur underground with no effects to the surface or occur
   in remote areas where the effects may not be noticed. However, many
   abandoned underground mines are located under heavily populated areas,
   such as Pittsburgh and the Wilkes-Barre/Scranton area in Pennsylvania,
   which can increase the potential for damage to homes and other
   structures. Evidence of mine subsidence are things such as sections of
   a building which begin to tilt, small cracks in foundations or basement
   or garage floors which begin to suddenly widen, growing separations
   between walls and floors, windows which begin to stick, jam or even
   break, or long, continuous cracks in the ground.

   How can I determine if my property has been undermined? Get an analysis
   of the mine maps within your area. A good first step toward this end
   would be to contact the Mine Map Repository or your state environmental
   agency. Other ways to determine that an area has been undermined
   include exploratory drilling, ground penetrating radar, and seismic
   soundings.

   Does a particular method of mining enhance the probability of mine
   subsidence? Yes. Several methods of mining are used to get minerals
   from underground. These methods include room and pillar mining,
   longwall mining, auger mining and surface mining. These methods use two
   basic types--partial extraction and full extraction. As a rule, the
   more mineral that is removed in a mining operation, the greater the
   likelihood of subsidence. The two types of mining most commonly
   associated with mine subsidence are room and pillar mining and longwall
   mining.

   Room and pillar mining uses partial extraction, where "rooms" of
   minerals are removed while leaving behind "pillars" of minerals to
   support the ground surface. These mines may be subject to subsidence at
   any time. Longwall mining uses full extraction. This method involves
   the removal of long panels of coal, with the goal being the complete
   removal of the coal in that area. Once the panel is completed, the area
   subsides in a relatively short period of time. The subsidence is
   planned to occur soon after the coal has been removed, usually within a
   couple of months and thus is predictable. Current longwall mining
   techniques are designed to allow all settling to be complete within a
   couple of years after which new development and construction can then
   safely occur.

   [Dividing Line Image]

  Other Useful Links

     * U.S. Geological Survey
     * Pennsylvania Geologic Survey
     * U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
     * Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection
     * Office of Surface Mining Home Page

   [Dividing Line Image]

Contact Information

   Mine Map Repository (National)

   Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
   Mine Map Repository

   Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania

   Program Specialist
          Greig Robertson

   Telephone
          412-937-3001

   FAX
          412-937-2888

   Hours of Operation
          7:30 a.m. through 4:00 p.m.,
          Monday through Friday
          (excluding holidays)
          (Visits by appointment only)

   Postal address
          DOI, OSM, MMR
          3 Parkway Center
          Pittsburgh, PA 15220

   Electronic mail
          groberts@osmre.gov

   Telephone
          570-830-1400

   FAX
          570-830-1421

   Hours of Operation
          7:30 a.m. through 4:00 p.m.,
          Monday through Friday (excluding holidays)
          (Appointment not necessary,
          although it is advisable to contact
          the office beforehand.)

   Postal address
          DOI, OSM
          The Stegmaier Building
          7 North Wilkes-Barre Blvd, Suite 308
          Wilkes-Barre, PA 18702-5293

   Electronic mail
          jtracy@osmre.gov

   Because most of the mine maps only show the landmarks and roads that
   existed at the time of mining, the requestor must visit the repository
   in person to minimize the risk of misidentifying a site. Each visitor
   to the Wilkes-Barre Repository should have a detailed location of the
   site of interest, as well as a distance from a prominent street
   intersection or other applicable landmark.

   OSM staff will help visitors in locating the proper mine map, and
   interpreting the mining information. However, OSM staff will not assess
   the probability of future subsidence at any particular site. Subsidence
   often contradicts actual site conditions and is difficult to predict.
   OSM staff can provide the names of local independent consultants who
   can analyze the specific information and prepare a report on the mining
   conditions and potential for future subsidence.



   [TREEBAR.gif]

   Last modified: Tuesday, January 30, 2001        Hit Counter

   Department of the Interior
   Office of Surface Mining
   3 Parkway Center
   Pittsburgh, PA 15220
   412-937-3001
   groberts@osmre.gov
