http://pueblo.gsa.gov

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002



          SITE SEARCH:
   __________ [go.gif]-Submit

                                   Topics
            Cars -- Buying, Selling, Car Maintenance, Insurance
                      Children -- Learning, Parenting
                    Computers -- Buying, Getting On-line
    Education -- School Loans, Planning for College, Alternative Ways to
   Earn a Degree
   Employment -- Tips on finding a job, Occupation information, Workplace
   rights, Pensions
     Federal Programs -- Social Security, Medicare, Veteran's Benefits,
   Buying Government Property
   Food -- Nutrition for better health, Safe food handling and preparation
       Health -- Drugs and Health Aids, Dieting and Nutrition, Medical
   Problems
              Housing -- Financing and Sales, Home Maintenance
     Money -- Credit, Saving, Investing, Retirement Planning, Protecting
   your money
    Small Business -- Starting a Business, Small Business Administration,
   Patents and Copyrights
    Travel -- Foreign Travel Requirements, National Parks, Travel Advice,
   Flying rights and advice
    And more... -- Having trouble finding something? Check here or go to
   our search!

                                  Resources
   Consumer Action Website -- Tips, advice, listings of what to do and who
   to call with a consumer problem
          Image of a button linking to the National Contact Center
               Image of a button linking to FirstGov for Kids
         Recalls -- Federal and Private Sector Recalls on Products
   Scams and Frauds -- A listing of the latest scams and recalls announced
   by Federal Agencies and Consumer Groups

                              Subscribe to FCIC
                               news and media
                               e-mail updates!

   Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"




                              FCIC Home Page
   Search Page In The News Page Press Room Page FAQ Page Shop Site Links
   Page About Us Page Fun Stuff
   Animated promotion image

   Parade Magazine and AARP Bulletin -- Free FDIC Special Report "Are You
   Sure You're Fully Insured?"
   space
   Publication of the Week:
   Consumer's Almanac
   Here's a great way to get a handle on your finances. Learn how to
   organize your income and living expenses, manage your credit, and how
   to meet your future goals through saving and investing. It also
   features an Annual Income, Savings and Expense Chart to help you plan
   for the year ahead and monthly calendar pages to help you control your
   income and expenses month-to-month.
   space
   America Responds to Terrorism
   FCIC has put together a list of publications to help you and your
   family during this difficult time. Read more on Coping with Crisis.
   Also check out Suspicious Mail: What You Can Do.
   space
   Consumer Action Website:  Image of grandma trying to open a
   refrigerator linking to the Public Service Announcement
   Up in the air about where to get help with a consumer problem? Like
   that stubborn refrigerator you just bought? The new Consumer Action
   Website is now available. Based on the 2002 Consumer Action Handbook,
   the newly updated website is the one consumer guide that you must have.
   And you are welcome to use it for free, visit our Consumer Action
   Website.
   space
   What's New @ FCIC: See the most recent items that have been added to
   our website.
   space
   Fall 2001 Consumer Information Catalog Cover linking to a larger image
   of the cover Consumer Information Catalog:
   Hundreds of great books on a wide variety of topics. You can:

   View the books online (free)
   Order printed copies ($)
   Order the Catalog (free)
   Download the Catalog (free) --
   (pdf)-(400k) or (text).
   space
   Privacy Resources: In this Internet age, sometimes our personal
   information can seem a little exposed. Check out these links to learn
   how to protect your kids' privacy, prevent identity theft, protect your
   medical and financial information and more.
   space

   Consumer Focus:
   Image of a video tape shooting out of a VCR over a man's head linking
   to the January Consumer Focus Handling Consumer Complaints   Now that
   the holidays are over and all the presents are unwrapped, it's time to
   relax, right? But what if your expensive new electronic toy stopped
   working by New Year's Eve? Sometimes the consumer complaint process can
   seem complicated and intimidating. Well, you've come to the right
   place. We've put together all the information you need to get your
   complaint resolved quickly.
   Visit our Consumer Focus Archive
   space
   Image of the American Flag linking to the Federal Benefits and Services
   Page Federal Benefits and Services:
   We live in a great country. Our government provides a wide variety of
   benefits and services to Americans. FCIC is proud to present our
   Federal Benefits and Services page. This page contains links to sites
   for Social Security, Veteran's Benefits, Medicare, Children's Health
   Insurance, Home Heating and Cooling Assistance and much, much, more.
   space
   Image of National Call Center logo - askUS - 1-800-FED-INFO linking to
   the NCC website National Call Center:
   Have a telephone and a question about Federal agencies, programs,
   benefits, or services? The National Call Center is only a toll-free
   call away. Each year, our staff handles millions of calls from citizens
   who are trying to find that elusive answer to their question. Call us
   weekdays toll-free at 1 (800) FED-INFO (TTY 1-800-326-2996) between 9
   a.m. and 8 p.m. eastern time (except Federal holidays). Our staff can
   answer your question or get you to someone who can. We also have
   recordings of frequently requested information available around the
   clock.
   space
   Site Map - Text Version -  Privacy Policy - Security Statement
   space

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
     [gsa_logo.gif]

   [invisible.gif]
