http://www.students.gov

          Skip to quick connections Skip to Cross Agency Portals Skip to
                                main content
                                         Email this page to a friend...

      Students.Gov, Student Gateway to the U.S. Government, collage photo
       including woman in cap and gown, U.S. Capitol, man looking through
                      microscope, and Statue of Liberty



             Search for:
             __________              Within:
                        [students.gov links database___] Search


                     Select a Hot Link for Fast Answers!

                         [Apply for Financial Aid___]

                                                         Go!

                              AMERICA RESPONDS
                  U.S. Government information and resources
                     in response to September 11 events
                             STUDENT LOAN RELIEF
                        For Terrorist Attack Victims
                For Military Personnel Called to Active Duty
   privacy · link to us · add a link · disclaimer · about us · FAQs ·
                                 contact us


         students.gov InfoSource:



         Subscribe... Useful tips & site highlights from students.gov




               quick connections:



               Need to apply for financial aid, file your taxes,
                 or get a job? Connect now to some useful and
                 popular government services by selecting from
                             these featured links.
                     [Pick a Quick Connection..._____] Go




              one-stop info spots:



                 Health, consumers, nutrition, business women,
                 seniors--the U.S. Government has a variety of
                one-stop info spots for citizens. Choose what's
              important to you from this list of federal portals.
                    [Pick a One-Stop Info Spot...     ] Go

                 Link to FirstGov






     plan your education

     It's never too early..or too late...to begin planning education after
     high school. Here are some valuable links to help you get started.
     Prepare for college; College; Graduate school/young professionals;
     Vocational; International students; Study abroad; Parents guide;
     Distance education; School websites

       pay for your education

     Here you will find general information about the major federal student
     aid programs (who is eligible and how to apply), tax credits for
     education expenses, and other federal, state, and private sources of
     information.
     Scholarships and grants; Student loans; State financial aid;
     Work-study; Military funding; Budget your money; Calculate costs
       career development

     Whether you're beginning a new career or looking for a better job, the
     links in this section will help you get organized and find the
     information you need.
     Internships; Fellowships; Student job programs; Explore careers; Job
     search
       community service

     Looking for ways to give back to your community? You can make a
     difference. Search for all types of volunteer and service opportunities
     with the links in this section.
     Environment; Health care; Education; Poverty; Children; Be an
     international volunteer
       military service

     Discover the possibilities -- not only for military educational
     benefits, but for a dedicated life of service through great job
     opportunities.
     ROTC; Army; Navy; Marines; Air Force; National Guard; Coast Guard
       government 101

     For research, reference, and general information, here you will find a
     wide range of resources. From the White House to the Library of
     Congress to the Supreme Court -- you may be surprised at what's
     available here.
     Vote; Congress; Legislative information; Executive branch; Supreme
     Court
       travel and fun

     Travel safely, study abroad, even find a campsite -- follow these links
     to explore a variety of travel and recreational resources.
     Plan a trip; Travel alerts; Passports; Health; Services and info;
     Work/study outside the U.S.; National parks
       additional resources

     Obtain information about diversity; academic resources; paying your
     taxes; issues concerning housing, your health and the environment; the
     services offered by the Post Office; and your rights as a consumer.
     Diversity; Academic resources; Housing, health and the environment;
     Taxes; U.S. Postal Service; Consumer information

     privacy · link to us · add a link · disclaimer · about us · FAQs ·
                                   contact us
               Send technical questions regarding this Website to:
                             webwizard@students.gov
