http://www.dot.gov/safety.html


                   U.S. Department of Transportation Logo
   ""
   U.S. Department of Transportation 400 Seventh St, S.W. Washington D.C.
   20590
                                    "" ""

                                                      Search __________ Go

   FAQs Contact Us Privacy and Disclaimer
   ""
   "" "" "" ""
   ""
   Dot News
   Doing Business With DOT
   Safety
   Regulations
   Jobs and Education
   About DOT
   FOIA
   Site Map
   DOT Access (picture of Wheelchair to right of text)
   FirstGov.gov

                                   Safety

   The Department of Transportation touches the public through its mission
   of ensuring that our various modes of transportation operate safely on
      an individual basis and together as an interlinked transportation
    system.  This page provides links to the primary safety sites within
    the DOT. New sites are often added over time and may not be included
    immediately on this list. If you have a specific interest in a safety
    issue please use our search engine for a more complete search of all
      the safety related sites and information within the Department of
                               Transportation.

       Cross Cutting Transportation Safety Organizations and Programs:
     * DOT Safety Council - The central forum for the Secretary's
       Executive Team and Modal Administrators, providing inter-modal
       transportation safety policy leadership, and coordinating of
       multi-modal safety initiatives.
     * National Response Center - The NRC is the sole federal point of
       contact for reporting oil and chemical spills.
     * Transportation Safety Institute - Supports DOT's vital mission to
       ensure safety and security in the nation's transportation system
       through instruction to both those entrusted with enforcement and
       those obligated to compliance to safety standards.
     * Drug and Alcohol Safety - The Office of Drug and Alcohol Policy and
       Compliance (ODAPC) provides expert advise to industry
       representatives regarding implementation of the controlled
       substances and alcohol testing rules.
     * Drug and Alcohol Testing Services - The office responsible for
       managing the random selection process, developing policy,
       procedures and practices for workplace testing, and conducting
       nationwide testing of over 32,000 safety and security sensitive
       employees within DOT.
     * Hazardous Materials Safety –The Office responsible for coordinating
       a national safety program for the transportation of hazardous
       materials by air, rail, highway and water.

                                     Air
     * FAA Office of System Safety - Develops and implements improved
       tools and processes, to facilitate more effective use of safety
       data, both inside and outside the agency, to help improve aviation
       safety.
     * Aviation Human Factors - Develops and assures implementation of
       human factors policies, regulations, programs, and procedures which
       promote the safety and productivity of the national airspace
       system.
     * Aviation Medicine - The medical certification, research, and
       education wing of the United States Department of Transportation
       Federal Aviation Administration's Office of Aviation Medicine.
     * Aviation Safety Reporting System - The ASRS collects, analyzes, and
       responds to voluntarily submitted aviation safety incident reports
       in order to lessen the likelihood of aviation accidents.
     * Civil Aviation Security - To protect the users of commercial air
       transportation against terrorist and other criminal acts.
     * Flight Standards Service Aviation Information - Provides the public
       with easily accessible Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) safety
       related information pertaining to Airlines and Aircraft.

                                    Land
     * Highway Fatality Analysis Reporting System - Contains data on all
       vehicle crashes in the United States that occur on a public roadway
       and involve a fatality in the crash.
     * Highway Safety – An FHWA safety site with the goal to reduce
       roadway-related fatalities and injuries by designing a forgiving
       infrastructure.
     * Don’t hang out in the NO-ZONE - A Federal Motor Carrier Safety
       Administration campaign to educate people about how to share the
       road safely with large trucks and buses.
     * National Crash Analysis Center – A federally funded research center
       concentrating on vehicle crash research.
     * RSPA Office of Pipeline Safety - Administers DOT’s national
       regulatory program to assure the safe transportation of natural
       gas, petroleum, and other hazardous materials by pipeline.
     * Traffic Safety and Occupant Protection – A comprehensive site by
       NHTSA dealing with passenger and pedestrian safety.
     * Federal Transit Administration Safety and Security Office -
       Concerned with matters relating to the safety and security of our
       nation's mass transit systems.

                                     Sea
     * U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Center - Works directly with the
       marine industry, the Commandant and Coast Guard field units in the
       evaluation and approval of commercial vessel and systems designs,
       development of safety standards and policies, response to maritime
       casualties and oversight of delegated third parties in support of
       the Coast Guard's marine safety and environmental protection
       programs.
     * Marine Safety and Environmental Protection - Documents and other
       information of general interest to the maritime community. This
       site is updated daily.
     * Boating Safety - Dedicated to improving the knowledge, skills and
       abilities of recreational boaters with the ultimate goal of
       reducing the loss of life, injuries and property damage that occurs
       on U.S. waterways.
