http://newark.fbi.gov/contact/fo/newark/pressrel/2002/pr012302.htm

   Newark New Jersey FBI 24 hr Phone 973-792-3000
   Welcome
   Contact Us
   Community Outreach
   FBI Employment
   FBI Most Wanted
   Freedom of Information and Privacy Act
   *
   *
   *
   *
   *
   *
   *
   Link to FBI Home Page

                                Press Release
                              January 23, 2002

   Reward Poster

   Joint press release by FBI Newark and the United States Postal
   Inspection Service:
   A nationally-coordinated criminal investigative effort, under the
   direction of FBI Washington Field Office Assistant Director Van Harp
   and Chief Postal Inspector Kenneth C. Weaver, involving the FBI and the
   United States Postal Inspection Service in Trenton, NJ; Washington,
   D.C.; Miami, FL; New York, NY; and Oxford, CT, continues to address the
   anthrax tainted letters which were postmarked in Trenton, NJ. To date,
   a total of five (5) innocent people have died as a result of their
   unsuspecting exposure to Anthrax.

   In furtherance of this investigation, the United States Postal Service
   will begin delivery of a flyer which requests the continued assistance
   of the American public in this case. The initial delivery of this flyer
   will be to postal customers of the Trenton, NJ area and to adjacent
   communities of Bucks County, PA. Additionally, the flyers will be
   distributed to New Jersey area pharmaceutical companies and
   transportation depots servicing the Trenton area.

   These flyers contain a photograph of the four envelopes and information
   that may characterize the person(s) who prepared and mailed them. These
   envelopes are not standard business size, but are pre stamped,
   smaller-sized envelopes measuring 6 1/4" x 3 ½", and would have been
   sold at United States Post Offices and authorized retail outlets. The
   flyer also indicates that the person(s) responsible for the five deaths
   caused by the mailings is "likely to have a scientific background/work
   history which may include a specific familiarity with anthrax." Also,
   "this individual has a comfort level in and around the Trenton, NJ area
   due to present or prior association."

   The reward for information has been increased up to $2,500,000 for
   information leading to the arrest and conviction of the individual(s)
   responsible for mailing the four (4) Anthrax letters. $2,000,000 is
   being offered by the FBI and US Postal Service and $500,000 by ADVO,
   Inc.

   This investigation in New Jersey is being conducted by a task force,
   composed of numerous federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies
   as well as public health agencies from all levels. The task force has
   received a tremendous amount of information from the general public. As
   a result of this outstanding response, thousands of leads have been
   vigorously followed to their logical conclusion.
   The task force is continuing to request the public's assistance in this
   complex investigation which involves both public health concerns and a
   criminal investigation. We have reason to believe there are individuals
   who may have information pertinent to this investigation who have yet
   to come forward.

   "Those responsible for the anthrax-tainted letters must be brought to
   justice," New Jersey Governor James E. McGreevey said. "To this end, I
   urge the citizens of New Jersey to cooperate fully with the FBI, Postal
   Service, and state and local law enforcement."

   Information about suspicious person(s) or any other issue(s) deemed out
   of the ordinary concerning this investigation could be extremely
   important to the investigative team. Even if you think that your
   information is unimportant, or that someone else may have already
   reported what you know, please contact us immediately. Your call may be
   the one that provides us with the one piece of information needed to
   solve this case. Please, do not assume that your information has
   already been provided.

   "The mailings on September 18, 2001 and October 9, 2001 were an
   unprecedented attack on our nation's mail system. Although many of the
   initial investigative resources were concentrated in New Jersey, we
   continue to broaden the scope of the investigation and try different
   techniques, such as this flyer, to bring this to a successful
   conclusion," stated Chief Postal Inspector Kenneth C. Weaver.

   "We thank the individuals who have reached out and provided information
   since the inception and hope that these flyers and the newly augmented
   reward will encourage others to contact us," said FBI Assistant
   Director Van Harp.

   1-800-CRIME TV (1-800-274-6388) or amerithrax@fbi.gov
   (Information provided to this e-mail address will be held in
   confidence.)

       [ Welcome | Contact Us | Community Outreach | FBI Employment ]

   [ Most Wanted | Freedom of Information & Privacy Act | Privacy Notice |
                               FBI Home Page ]

   The use of the name, initials, or Seal of the FBI is restricted by law,
          and may only be used with written permission of the FBI.
