http://t14web.lanl.gov/Research/TDAC2000/mader.tsunami.00.pdf

   Theoretical Division - Self-Assessment Special Feature Detonation
   Theory & Application, T-14 April 2000 Mega - Tsunamis Charles L. Mader
   Mega-tsunamis are defined as waves of over 100-meter height in the deep
   ocean. The primary source of mega-tsunamis are asteroid impacts with
   the ocean, volcanic explosions, and landslides. A mega-tsunami did
   occur in 1958 in Lituya Bay, Alaska; however the mechanism of its
   formation is uncertain. Various models for the event are described in
   [1]. Lituya Bay, Alaska is on the northeast shore of the Gulf of
   Alaska. It is an ice-scoured tidal inlet with a maximum depth of 220
   meters and a narrow entrance with a depth of only 10 meters. It is a
   T-shaped bay, 7- miles long and up to 2-miles wide. The two arms at the
   head of the bay, Gilbert and Crillon Inlets, are part of a trench along
   the the Fairweather Fault. On July 8, 1958, a 7.5-magnitude earthquake
   occurred along the Fairweather fault with an epicenter near Lituya Bay.
   Figure 1: Photograph of where mega-tsunami reached 520 A mega-tsunami
   wave was generated that meters in Lituya Bay, Alaska on July 9, 1958.
   washed out trees to a maximum altitude of 520 meters at the entrance of
   Gilbert Inlet. Figure 2: The Lituya Bay numerical model initial
   condition and the calculated level of maximum flooding in the bay. The
   contour interval is 10 meters. The 520-meter-high tsunami inundation
   area is the triangular dark blue region in the upper right of the
   figure. Los Alamos Theoretical Division - Self-Assessment - Special
   Feature A photograph of the region is shown in Figure 1. Much of mass
   of rock that had plunged down the steep slope into the rest of the
   shoreline of the Bay was denuded by the the water. The volume of the
   rockfall was approximately tsunami from 30 to 200 meters altitude. 30
   million cubic meters (40 million cubic yards). The Swanson observations
   and numerical modeling studies (1) During the last 150 years, five
   giant waves have occurred indicate that a lot more than a simple
   landslide had to occur in Lituya Bay. The previous event occurred on
   October to produce a 520-meter-high wave. The Swanson 27, 1936, it
   washed out trees to a maximum altitude of 150 observations suggest a
   water wave lifted the front of the meters and was not associated with
   an earthquake. glacier up and moved it out from its initial position
   and generated the 520-meter-high-wave run-up. The July 9, 1958
   earthquake occured at about 10:15 p.m. which is still daylight at
   Lituya Bay. The weather was George Pararas-Caryannis (2) suggested that
   the wave was clear and the tide was ebbing at about plus 1.5 meters.
   Bill formed by a landslide impact similar to an asteroid impact, and
   Vivian Swanson were on their boat anchored in making a cavity in the
   inlet ocean to the depth of the inlet Anchorage Cove near the western
   side of the entrance of floor (120 meters) near the landslide. The
   water in the inlet Lituya Bay. Their astounding observation was as
   follows: with the width of the landslide and between the landslide and
   the 520-meter-high run-up is sufficient to cover the run- "With the
   first jolt, I tumbled out of the bunk and up region to 100 meter
   height. Using the shallow water code looked toward the head of the bay
   where all the SWAN described in reference 3, it was determined that
   this noise was coming from. The mountains were water layer is
   sufficient to form a wave that will reproduce shaking something awful,
   with slide of rock and the observed flooding of the bay beyond the
   inlet. The results snow, but what I noticed mostly was the glacier, the
   of the model are shown in Figure 2. It is not known how a north
   glacier, the one they call Lituya Glacier. landslide impact could
   result in the observed movement of the water and glacier. I know you
   can't ordinarily see that glacier from where I was anchored. People
   shake their heads The Tlingit natives believe that a powerful spirit,
   Kah Lituya, when I tell them I saw it that night. I can't help it if
   lives in deep ocean caverns near the entrance to the bay. He they don't
   believe me. I know the glacier is hidden resents being disturbed and
   rises up to shake the mountains by the point when you're in Anchorage
   Cove, but I and wash away intruders with giant waves. know what I saw
   that night, too. The glacier had risen in the air and moved forward so
   it was in sight. It must have risen several hundred feet. I don't mean
   it was just hanging in the air. It seems to be solid, but it was
   jumping and shaking like crazy. Big chunks of ice were falling off the
   face of it and down into the water. That was six miles away and they
   still looked like big chunks. They came off the glacier like a big load
   of rocks spilling out of a dump truck. That went on for a little
   while-its hard to tell just how long-and then suddenly the glacier
   dropped back out of sight and there was a big wall of water going over
   the point. [1] Charles L. Mader, "Modeling the 1958 Lituya Bay Mega-
   The wave started for us right after that and I was Tsunami," Science of
   Tsunami Hazards 17, pages 57-67 (1999). too busy to tell what else was
   happening up there.'' [2] George Pararas-Carayannis, "Analysis of
   Mechanism of Tsunami Generation in Lituya Bay," Science of Tsunami The
   front of Lituya Glacier on July 10 was a nearly Hazards 17, pages
   193-206 (1999). straight, vertical wall almost normal to the trend of
   the valley. Comparisions with photographs of the glacier [3] Charles L.
   Mader, Numerical Modeling of Water Waves, taken July 7 indicate that
   400 meters of ice had been UC Press (1988). sheared off of the glacier
   front. After the earthquake there was a fresh scar on the northeast A
   U. S. Department of Energy Laboratory clm@lanl.gov wall of Gilbert
   Inlet, marking the recent position of a large This paper is a portion
   of LA-UR-00-1. Los Alamos
