http://www.bpt.ca.gov/pressreleases.html

   [goldenstate.jpg] California Homepage Governor's Homepage




                                  Site Map:

   Home
       BPT
       Logo
     Chairperson
       Executive Officer
     Commissioners
     Deputy Commissioners
     Divisions
       Executive
         Victim Services
       Administrative
         Communications Office
           Press Releases
       Hearings
         Offender Screening
           MDO
           SVP
       Investigations
         Pardon How-to
       Legal
     General Information
       Related Links
       Who Gets Parole?
     Projects
       Chemical Castration
       Gang Abatement Program
       High Control Parolees
       Foreign Prisoner Transfer
       Regulatory Revision
     Statistics
       Caseload Statistics


                    The California Board of Prison Terms



        Deputy Commissioner Tom Wadkins Receives Meritorious Service Award

      Board of Prison Terms Deputy Commissioner Thomas Wadkins was presented
      the Meritorious Service in the Line of Duty Award by California
      Attorney General Bill Lockyer at the California Attorney Generals
      Special Agent Awards Ceremony on June 8, 1999.

      On October 28, 1970, Deputy Commissioner Thomas Wadkins was a Special
      Agent with the Bureau of Narcotic Enforcement in the California
      Department of Justice, working undercover on a drug case. During a
      $10,000 undercover drug purchase, the two suspects attempted to rob
      Wadkins and DEA Agent Lusardi. Lusardi was struck in the head with a
      tire iron during a struggle with one suspect while a shootout ensued
      between Wadkins and the other suspect, who was wounded in the thigh.
      During the exchange of fire, Wadkins saw the second suspect attempting
      to shoot his semi-conscious partner at point-blank range, and while
      still under fire, Wadkins went to Lusardis aid, saving his life.
      Additional officers arrived to assist, and both suspects were
      apprehended and later convicted.

      Deputy Commissioner Wadkins was recognized by Chairman Jim Nielsen at
      the Boards June 8 Board meeting for his actions. Wadkins came to the
      Board from the Department of Justice in December, 1998.

   Deputy Commissioner Danielle Lopez Named Woman of the Year for 31st Assembly
                                     District

      Danielle Lopez, Deputy Commissioner, Board of Prison Terms, was named
      as Woman of the Year for the 31st Assembly District by Assemblymember
      Sarah Reyes during a special ceremony held in the California State
      Assembly on March 15.

      Honorees are selected from each Assembly and Senate district in the
      state and are recognized by the Legislature during the annual Woman of
      the Year ceremony at the California State Capitol during the
      legislative session.

      "Danielle truly deserves this special recognition. She represents what
      is best about our community," stated Reyes. "Her dedication to our
      community speaks for itself. She is a wonderful role model and truly
      deserving of the honor of being our Woman of the Year."

      Lopez, currently a Fowler resident, grew up in Fresno, where she worked
      as a farm laborer and attended area schools, later graduating from
      California State University, Fresno, with a bachelor of science degree
      in criminology. She has dedicated her life to public service, including
      not only volunteer work, but as a County Probation Officer in the
      Fresno area, followed by 19 years with the California Department of
      Corrections, before coming to the Board of Prison Terms as a Deputy
      Commissioner.

      Recognizing that many individuals throughout her life have contributed
      to her success, she has made it a priority to give back to the youth in
      the community, believing that the success of our youth depends upon our
      ability to provide them with opportunities. She acts on that belief by
      serving as adjunct faculty at Fresno City College, and has worked as a
      volunteer for Big Brothers, Big Sisters, as well as serving on the
      Board of Directors for the East Fresno Boys and Girls Club.


                               Back to thetop

                    Generated on Fri May 29 09:12:36 1998
                   Last updated: Mon Feb 22 16:33:50 1999
