http://laps.fsl.noaa.gov/cgi/shaw.homepage.cgi

                                 Brent L. Shaw

   664 W. 38^th Street, Loveland, CO 80538

   Phone: (303)497-6100 Fax: (303) 497-7262 E-mail: shaw@fsl.noaa.gov

   [blurulr5.gif]

Career Objective

   To work in the field of meteorological applied research and development
   to help improve operational weather forecasting to the benefit of
   society.

Research Interests

   Mesoscale data assimilation and numerical weather prediction including
   direct initialization of clouds and precipitation information,
   convective storm initiation and morphology, land-surface effects on the
   atmospheric boundary layer, data visualization techniques, and
   automated end-user weather impact product development.

Education

   M.S., Atmospheric Science, Colorado State University, 1995

   Advisor: Prof. Roger A. Pielke

   Thesis Title: The Effect of Soil Moisture and Vegetation Heterogeneity
   on a Great Plains Dryline: A Numerical Study

   B.S., Atmospheric Science, The University of Kansas, 1990

   North Kansas City High School, 1986

Employment History

   Current Employer: Cooperative Institute for Research in the Atmosphere

   Location: NOAA Forecast Systems Laboratory, Boulder, CO

   Dates of Employment: 31 January 2000 - Present

   Job Title and Responsibilities: Research Associate assigned to the
   Local Analysis and Prediction Branch, Forecast Research Division, NOAA
   Forecast Systems Lab, responsible for integrating the local analysis
   and prediction system (LAPS) with various numerical weather prediction
   models including the Penn State/NCAR MM5 model and the Colorado State
   University RAMS model for real-time local scale weather prediction.
   Tasks include development of new assimilation techniques, analysis and
   forecast model optimization and evaluation, and data impact studies.
   Key member of a team developing the standard initialization routines
   for the new Weather Research and Forecast (WRF) model.

   Previous Employer: The Aerospace Corporation

   Location: Omaha Field Office, HQ Air Force Weather Agency, Offutt AFB,
   NE

   Dates of Employment: 16 June 1997 - 21 January 2000

   Job Title and Responsiblities: Member of the Technical Staff assigned
   to the Omaha Field Office, a three-member team supporting the Defense
   Meteorological Satellite Program (DMSP) office by providing technical
   assistance to their primary customer, the US Air Force Weather Agency
   (AFWA). Support included providing technical oversight of contractors
   developing an operational cloud analysis and forecasting system on
   behalf of AFWA, development of prototype software to process and
   visualize various sources of meteorological satellite data, and
   improvement of satellite data usage within the qualitative and
   quantitative forecast systems at the agency.

   Previous Employer: United States Air Force

   Location: HQ AFWA , Offutt AFB, NE, 1995-1997; Air Force Insititute of
   Technology , Colorado State University, 1993-1995; Weather Flight,
   363^rd Operational Support Squadron, 363^rd Fighter Wing, Shaw AFB, SC
   (1991-1993).

   Dates of Employment: 17 January 1991-6 June 1997

   Job Title and Responsibilities: Wing Weather Officer. Provide
   operational weather support to a USAF fighter wing, attended graduate
   school, and served as a staff officer at the Air Force Weather Agency
   responsible for all aspects of meteorological satellite data
   exploitation. Currently still an active member of the USAF Reserve,
   assigned to the Meteorological Models Branch, HQ AFWA.

Skills and Experience

   Fluent in FORTRAN77, FORTRAN90, and Interactive Data Language (IDL)

   Extensive use of the MM5 and RAMS mesoscale modeling systems

   Working knowledge of all operational meteorological satellite systems

   Vis5D Visualization System

   UNIX Shell scripting

   Experience with UNIX, Linux, and Windows (98 and NT) operating systems

Publications

   Click here to see the list.

Awards

   NOAA FSL Forecast Research Division Achievement Award (March, 2001)

   Air Force Weather Agency Outstanding Weather IMA of the Year (2000)

   USAF Commendation Medal (1993, 1997)

   FFRDC Contractor of the Year (1998)

   The Aerospace Corporation TEAM Award (1998)

   HQ AFWA Company Grade Officer of the Quarter (July-September, 1995)

   363^rd OSS/OSW Company Grade Officer of the Quarter (1992)

Memberships

   American Meteorological Society

   USAF Reserve

   American Radio Relay League
