http://www.usfa.fema.gov/about/press/02-007.htm

   USFA SEAL Blank Image Press Releases Banner Image


                                                  ABOUT USFA
                           USFA Programs Navigation Menu Link
                                 History Navigation Menu Link
                          Press Releases Navigation Menu Link
                                   FAQ's Navigation Menu Link
                Employment Opportunities Navigation Menu Link

Release No.: 02-007
Release Date: January 24, 2002

FEMA DIRECTOR TO TAKE PART IN FIRST RESPONDER TRAINING

   FEMA Director Allbaugh talks with firefighters while visiting the
   Maryland Fire and Rescue Institute for a fire exercise. WASHINGTON -
   Following President Bushs incitement of significant increases in
   assistance to first responders, Joe M. Allbaugh, director of the
   Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and U.S. Fire Administrator
   R. David Paulison will take part in a hands-on firefighting exercise at
   the Maryland Fire and Rescue Institute (MFRI) on the campus of the
   University of Maryland, College Park on Friday, January 25, beginning
   at 2:00 p.m.

   The exercise is designed to underscore the role of first responders,
   the hazards of firefighting, as well as foster a greater understanding
   of the need for safe, hands-on training and modern protective equipment
   for emergency response personnel.

   "I look forward to the opportunity to put on the protective equipment
   and take part in a training session that firefighters across the nation
   use every day," Allbaugh said. "I think it is important for government
   officials to fully understand the difficult and dangerous conditions
   these brave men and women experience."

   The demonstration evolutions will include the donning and use of full
   protective equipment, including breathing apparatus; a controlled
   structural burn and the observation of the dynamics of fire and smoke;
   extinguishment of flammable liquids fire; and a simulated patient
   extrication from a vehicle. Allbaugh and Paulison will don full
   firefighter gear and participate in these activities.

   Allbaugh, along with Paulison, oversees the U.S. Fire Administration,
   which is the national leader in fire safety and prevention, supporting
   the efforts of local communities to reduce the number of fires and fire
   deaths.

   The MFRI of the University of Maryland is the states comprehensive
   training and education system for emergency services. The Institute
   plans, researches, develops, and delivers quality programs to enhance
   the ability of emergency service providers to protect life, the
   environment and property.

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: January 29, 2002

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
