http://nationalmap.usgs.gov

   USGS National Mapping Information home page banner depicting digital
   raster graphic; links to USGS home page.

   Navigation Button Bar

                                The National Map

   Portion of USGS topographic map.

   The USGS is committed to meeting the Nation's needs for current base
   geographic data and maps. Our vision is that, by working with partners,
   we will provide the Nation with access to current, accurate, and
   nationally consistent digital data and topographic maps derived from
   those data. This synthesis of information, products, and capabilities,
   The National Map, will be a seamless, continuously maintained set of
   geographic base information that will serve as a foundation for
   integrating, sharing, and using other data easily and consistently.

   About The National Map
          Provides an overview of The National Map vision and how it will
          be accomplished.

   Report on The National Map Concept
          Provides links to the final report of the Task Force that
          defined The National Map vision and to a companion document
          summarizing reviews of the report and USGS answers to issues
          raised during those reviews.

   Pilot Projects
          A fact sheet is available for each pilot project. These projects
          are the foundation of future partnerships upon which The
          National Map will be built.

   Fact Sheet
          A fact sheet summarizing The National Map concept is available
          in both PDF (Adobe® Portable Document Format) and standard HTML
          format.

   Note: The PDF versions of documents offered at this site require use of
   the free Adobe® Acrobat® Reader to view. If you have difficulty
   accessing these documents, please let us know at nationalmap@usgs.gov
   and we will provide them to you in an alternative format.

   We welcome your comments on The National Map vision, mission, and
   strategies. Contact us by e-mail at nationalmap@usgs.gov or by mail to
   USGS-The National Map, MS-511 National Center, 12201 Sunrise Valley
   Drive, Reston, VA 20192.

   Navigation Button Bar


    U.S. Department of the Interior || U.S. Geological Survey
    12201 Sunrise Valley Drive, Reston, VA 20192, USA
    URL: http://nationalmap.usgs.gov/index.html
    Maintainer: nationalmap@usgs.gov
    Last modified: 17:43:49 Mon 03 Dec 2001
    Privacy Policy and Disclaimers || FOIA || Accessibility

   Link to FirstGov in new browser window
