http://bhpr.hrsa.gov/childrenshospitalgme/

   Childrens Hospital Graduate Medical Education navigation image map
   reimbursing freestanding children's hospitals for the costs of training
   physicians (13792 bytes)

   NEWS

   Technical Assistance Conference Calls
   Friday, January 25, 2002, from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. EST
   Friday, April 26, 2002, from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. EST
   Friday, October 25, 2002, from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. EST
   Download registration form in MS-Word
   Download registration form in Adobe Acrobat
   See the Federal Register Notice

   FFY 2002 Funding Alert
   The Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and
   Services Administration (HRSA) is currently under a continuing
   resolution (CR) until a budget can be passed by the House and Senate
   and approved by the President.

   In light of the CR, the HRSA is dedicated to providing children's
   hospitals with the funding necessary to address disparity in the level
   of Federal funding for children's hospitals that result from Medicare
   funding for graduate medical education.  As identified in the March 1,
   2001 Federal Register notice (66 FR 12940) and in accordance with CHGME
   Payment Program statutes, beginning in FFY2002 payments to eligible
   children's hospitals will be made on an interim basis and will include
   a 25 percent withholding.

   To begin making payments to children's hospitals while the Agency
   continues to operate under a CR, the following additional information
   is provided to alert you of the plan of action that has been
   implemented:
     * Eligible children's hospitals that applied for FY 2002 funds will
       begin receiving payments on or about November 2001.  Payments will
       be made once a month until a budget is passed.
     * Payments to children's hospitals will be based upon the amount of
       funding identified under the current CR and is dependent on the
       availability of funds.
     * The total amount of funding available to make payments to
       children's hospitals may fluctuate from month to month as a result
       of the current CR.

   The CHGME Payment Program will continue to operate under this plan of
   action until a FY 2002 budget is approved.  Upon receipt of our 2002
   budget, the CHGME Payment Program will recalculate payments, make
   necessary adjustments and continue to provide funding on an interim
   basis as required by statute.

   If we may be of further assistance, please do not hesitate to contact
   us at 301-443-1058 or ChildrensHospitalGME@hrsa.gov.

   Why Children's Hospital GME?

   To reimburse these hospitals for the high costs of training the next
   generation of providers and ensure that an adequate number of residents
   receive the kind of focused advanced training these hospitals provide,
   Congress created the Children's Hospital Graduate Medical Education
   Program in 1999 to reimburse these hospitals that
     * Train about 30 percent of the Nation's pediatricians and almost
       half of pediatric specialists
     * Receive less than one percent of the Medicare GME support that
       other teaching hospitals receive because independent children's
       teaching hospitals do not serve the elderly

   In Federal Fiscal Year 2000, the Health Resources and Services
   Administration Bureau of Health Professions disbursed nearly $40
   million to 56 children's hospitals (see the press release). The FFY
   2001 appropriation is $235 million to continue the support of
   children's teaching hospitals.

   [../_private/footer.htm]
