http://wflc.od.nih.gov/faces.html

         The NIH Work and Family Life Center (WFLC)
                                                    WFLC Home
                                                    What's New
                                                    Contact Us
                                                    Site Index

                   Faces and Phases of Life Seminar Series
                                   SPACER
                               Horizontal Rule

                                   SPACER

   Skip navigation, go to content for this page.

   Work/Life at NIH
   Work/Life Consultation
   Career Consultation
   Resource and Referral Services
   Lactation Program
   Seminar Series
   Career Workshops
   Customized Training
   Resource Library
   Computer Resources
   Hot Links
      Search
      ______ Submit





   Vertical Rule

                          About the Seminar Series

     The NIH Work and Family Life Center (WFLC), in conjunction with the
    Employee Assistance Program, is pleased to announce the fourth annual
      "Faces and Phases of Life" seminar series. This successful series
   brings expert speakers to campus to address a broad range of quality of
                      work and quality of life issues.

    Seminars are held weekly, generally during lunch hour, from September
                                through June.

     Our speakers backgrounds are as diverse as the topic areas that we
   offer. All are experts in the given subject matter. They are drawn from
     the WFLC, the Employee Assistance Program, NIH as a whole, and the
     local community. Information about a particular speaker is usually
       available from the WFLC a few weeks in advance of each seminar.

         Please pre-register for all seminars by calling the WFLC at
   301-435-1619. You can also call the WFLC to be added to our e-mail list
                and receive weekly notification of seminars.

                Fall-Winter 2001/Winter-Spring 2002 Seminars

   November :: December :: January :: February :: March :: April

                    Can't make it to a seminar? You can:
     * Watch the event on the NIH videocasting web site, either in
       real-time or from the archive, http://videocast.nih.gov.
     * Arrange teleconferencing to your location. Contact the WFLC as
       early as possible to arrange this service.
     * Rent the videocassette from the WFLC resource collection - it will
       be available about two weeks after the workshop.

                 All seminars are presented free of charge.

   Sign language interpretation will be provided. For any other reasonable
   accommodations, call the WFLC at least 48 hours prior to the seminar at
                    301/435-1619, TTY/TDD: 301/480-0690.

    Date, time, building/room number are given for each seminar. Changes
   will be posted on the WFLC web site, sent to individuals on our e-mail
                   list, and posted at the original site.


   November

   The Inner Game: A Holistic Approach to Eating and Weight Control

   Just in time for the holiday season! A highly personalized and
   interactive program designed to help you understand how foods affect
   your metabolism. You will learn how to maintain a tracking system that
   allows you to get in touch with your body's signals, record eating and
   drinking habits, physical activity levels, challenges and achievements.
   You'll complete a metabolic profile, and learn about the glycemic index
   of foods.

   Thursday, November 15, 12:00 - 2:00, Building 1, Wilson Hall

   Community Resources for Seniors

   If you're caring for an elderly relative, locally or far away, this
   seminar will help you identify the resources that exist to help them
   maintain a good quality of life. You will explore resources for in-home
   and community support, learn how to evaluate the needs of an older
   adult, the role that case management plays in assisting you, and how to
   identify compatible support.

   Wednesday, November 28, 12:00 - 2:00, Building 31, Room 6C10

   Don't forget about the Work and Family Life Center's Elder/Adult
   Dependent Resource & Referral Service, which can identify these
   resources in any given community nationwide. Call us at 301-435-1619 or
   visit our Elder/Adult Dependent Resource & Referral Service page for
   further information.

   We will also be available after this seminar to answer questions about
   the service.

   December

   Keeping Yourself Together: A Three-Part Stress Management Series
   presented by the Employee Assistance Program

   Craig Kalman, M.S. and Eva Chen, M.S.W.

   Part 1: Stress Awareness

     This session will focus on defining what stress is and how it
     manifests itself in our lives; both good and bad. You will leave
     with a good understanding of the nature of stress.

     Wednesday, December 5, 1:00 - 2:00, Building 31, Room 6C6*

     * NOTE: This is a room change; seminar was originally scheduled to
     take place in Wilson Hall.

   Part 2: The Negative Impact of Stress, or "I'm Not Stressed Out!!!!!!"

     This session will describe the negative impact of stress on our
     daily lives. You will learn how unattended stress can affect you at
     work, at home, and even in your sleep.

     Tuesday, December 11, 1:00 - 2:00, Building 1, Wilson Hall

   Part 3: Developing Your Personal Stress Management Plan

     Learn how to protect or inoculate yourself against stress. By the
     time you finish this final session, you will have begun to develop
     your own personal stress management plan.

     Wednesday, December 19, 1:00 - 2:00, Building 31, Room 6C10

   January

   Finding a Job that is a Good Fit for You

   This seminar will provide you with a self-empowering overview of the
   job search process. We will discuss issues related to how to focus your
   job search, identifying materials and supplies to assist with the
   process, discovering creative ways and resources to generate job search
   leads, and the critical importance of follow-up.

   Tuesday, January 8, 12:00 - 2:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

   Unclutter Your Office, Your Home, and Your Mind: A Guide to Personal
   Organization (Two-Part Series)

   Many people talk about organizing, but certain hindrances keep them
   from doing it: not enough time, not enough energy, ever-increasing
   volumes of paper, ever-increasing work/life responsibilities,
   uncertainty about how to begin, fear of wastebasketry, and on and on.

   This seminar takes a holistic approach to helping participants
   establish order out of chaos. It focuses on the mental and physical
   steps necessary to create systems that work.

   The series will enable attendees to:
     * Streamline their lives
     * Identify the personal values that impact their management of
       home/work
     * Create rituals for effective time management
     * Get organized with technology
     * Unclutter home and office by creating a personal system for
       sorting, purging, assembling, container-izing, evolving

   Part 1: Tuesday, January 15, 12:00 - 1:30, Building 31, Room 6C6

   Part 2: Tuesday, January 22, 12:00 - 1:30, Building 31, Room 6C6

   February

   Managing Your ADD/ADHD Childs Behavior at Home

   This seminar will include a discussion of the general signs ADD/ADHD,
   but will focus mainly on the difficulties of handling ADD/ADHD
   behaviors in the home. You will learn techniques for controlling
   behavior in routing home situations, and create your own action plan to
   work with your child at home.

   Tuesday, February 5, 12:00 - 2:00, Building 31, Room 6C10

   Interviewing Skills

   If you dread interviews, or arent sure how to make them work for you,
   join our career consultant for this skill-building workshop. Interviews
   can be exciting and productive experiences if you know how to prepare
   for and manage them!

   Tuesday, February 12, 12:00 - 2:00, Executive Plaza North, Conference
   Room G

   will not be videocast, sign language interpretation upon request, limit
   of 20 participants

   Dealing With Difficult People

   Whether at work or in our personal lives, we all encounter difficult
   people and arent sure how to cope with them. In this session youll
   learn to identify specific kinds of difficult people and the approaches
   that work best with each; how to avoid common mistakes; and how to be
   proactive rather than reactive.

   Wednesday, February 13, 12:00 - 1:30, Neuroscience Center (6001
   Executive Boulevard), Conference Room B

   will not be videocast, sign language interpretation upon request

   Financial Planning 101: A Guide to Getting Started

   This seminar has been RESCHEDULED for Thursday, February 28, 9:00 -
   11:00 am, Building 31, 6C10

   SEE BELOW for details

   Retirement Planning

   Join our expert team to learn about the most effective ways to plan for
   your retirement from Federal service. Whether you're early or late in
   your career, this seminar will help you sort out the system and
   discover how it can work for you.

   Tuesday, February 26, 12:00 - 3:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

   Financial Planning 101: A Guide to Getting Started

   A comprehensive basic guide that will cover planning for tomorrow, risk
   management, and cash management; as well as investment, tax,
   educational, retirement, and estate planning.

   Thursday, February 28, 9:00 - 11:00 am, Building 31, 6C10

   March

   Developing Competitive Resumes for Federal Jobs and the Private Sector

   Join us to discover what you need to know about the similarities - and
   differences - between Federal and private sector resumes, and learn how
   you can develop resumes that will help you land the jobs that you want.

   Tuesday, March 5, 12:00 - 2:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

   Anger and Conflict Management: A Three Part Series presented by the
   Employee Assistance Program

   Michael Bowler, Ph.D. and Eva Chen, M.S.W.

   An exploration of the social, emotional, cognitive, and behavioral
   aspects of anger in ourselves and in others.

   Part 1: Spinning Out of Control - The Cycle of Anger
   Tuesday,  March 12, 12:00 - 1:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

   Part 2: Pulling Yourself Together - 10 Principles of Anger Reduction
   Tuesday, March 19, 12:00 - 1:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

   Part 3: Keeping Yourself Together - Core Coping Strategies
   Wednesday, March 27, 12:00 - 1:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

   April

   Work/Life Flexibilities: What You Need to Create Your Life Balance, How
   You Ask for What You Need

   NIH Employees have access to a wide variety of programs and policies
   that help in negotiating the demands of work and personal life. Join
   the WFLC staff to find out more about your options, and how you work
   with your management team to negotiate win/win work life balance. A
   success stories panel will help bring these ideas to life!

   Tuesday, April 2, 12:00 - 2:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

   Managing in a Flexible Work Environment: A Workshop for Managers

   Alternative schedules, job sharing, part-time workers, teleworkers -
   todays workplace can be complex and difficult to manage. Join the WFLC
   staff and a panel of NIH managers to learn how you can make flexibility
   work for your organization.

   Tuesday, April 9, 12:00 - 2:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

   Interviewing Techniques for Hiring Officials

   We coach and assist job searchers about how to approach interviews, but
   what is the picture from the other side of the desk? As a hiring
   official, what do you need to know in order to "sell" the position to
   qualified applicants, and to ask the right questions to select the best
   person possible for the job?

   Tuesday, April 16, 12:00 - 2:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

   Talking with Your Teen about Sexuality
   Sex can be a difficult topic, yet today more than ever parents must
   have informed and open discussions with their teens. In this session
   you will discuss parents outlook on teen sexuality and data on teen
   health and sexuality, as well as the more complex issues of what
   techniques to use to discuss sexual behavior and how you can impart
   your values to your teen.

   Tuesday, April 23, 12:00 - 2:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

   Parenting Skills for the Working Parent
   Parenting is one of the most challenging roles we have - yet we rarely
   receive parent training! Theres a wealth of information for parents,
   but so little time to read and digest it. This three-hour workshop is
   designed to give you the practical information you need to manage the
   challenges of being a working parent.

   Tuesday, April 30, 1:00 - 4:00, Building 31, Room 6C6

       WFLC Home : Work/Life at NIH : Work/Life Consultation : Career
    Consultation : Workshops & Training : NIH Lactation Program : Seminar
   Series : Hot Links : Resource Library : Resource & Referral Services :
    Computer Resources : What's New : Contact Us : About Our Staff : Site
                             Index : Disclaimer
