http://sq47.cawg.cap.gov/Missions/missions.htm


                               Civil Air Patrol
[usflag.gif]

                                            Composite
                                           Squadron 47
                                            Skyhawks
                                         Squadron 47
                                         Squadron 47 California Wing
                                                     California Wing National HQ
                                                                     National HQ

     Home

     About CAP
     CAP Missions

     Calendar
     Schedule
     Directions

     Cadet Staff
     Senior Staff
     Photo Gallery

     Nat'l Activities
     Scholarships

     CAP Forms
     eServices
     WMU
     Links
     Just For Fun




                                CAP Missions

    Cadet Programs
    Aerospace Education
    Emergency Services


    Cadet Programs
     The CAP Cadet Program develops the skills and potential of youth ages
   11 to 21 as they learn, and put into hands on practice, aerospace
   education, moral, ethics and leadership training, and physical fitness
   in a military environment.
   Cadets progress through 15 achievements in a 5 phase program with
   exciting aviation and aerospace activities occurring on local and
   national and international levels.  Parents and educators credit the
   cadet program for communicating the importance of integrity,
   self-discipline and trust in their children's personal and professional
   success.  It is a rewarding program that is designed to be fun and
   challenging.
   More about the Cadet Program                        Back to Top

    Aerospace Education
     CAP has both internal and external Aerospace Education programs.  The
   internal program is mandatory for Cadet members and elective for Senior
   members.  Aerospace Education provides CAP members and the community
   with hands-on activities, field trips, classroom materials, teacher
   training and other educational aids which promote the understanding of
   aviation and space programs.
   Back to Top

    Emergency Services
     CAP is most commonly associated with the mission of emergency
   Services.  CAP volunteer pilots fly 85% of all inland search and rescue
   missions directed by the Air Force Rescue Coordination Center.  CAP
   volunteer members also provide disaster relief support, including air
   and ground transportation and aerial reconnaissance, to agencies such
   as the American Red Cross and the Federal Emergency Management
   Administration (FEMA).  CAP's extensive communication network is
   available to local, state, and national disaster relief agencies free
   of charge.  CAP transports time-sensitive medical materials in support
   of humanitarian organizations. The live organ transport program is
   credited with saving an average of 10 lives every year.  CAP
   counterdrug operations through formal agreements with the U.S. Air
   Force, the U.S. Customs Service, the Drug Enforcement Agency and the
   U.S. Forest Service provides aerial reconnaissance, airborne
   communications support, and airlift of law enforcement personal in
   support of our nations war on drugs.
   Back to Top
