http://www.canalpoint.sugarcane.usda.gov/home.htm

                           Sugarcane Field Station

     The sugarcane field station was established to produce the seed for
   new sugarcane cultivars for the Louisiana sugar industry in response to
   a devastating disease (sugarcane mosaic virus) epidemic.  The station
   was first located on Collins' Key in 1928, what is now known as Miami
   Beach.  The station was relocated to its present site at Canal Point,
   FL on the east shore of Lake Okeechobee and became operational in
   1934.  This site provided more favorable night temperatures and less
   severe winds than the original location further south.

       Today, the station produces about 1,000,000 true seeds each year
   for the Florida, Texas and Louisiana sugarcane industries.  The
   designation "CP" precedes the series number of each new variety
   developed through this program.  CP sugarcane cultivars occupy more
   than 50% of the sugarcane acreage in Florida and Texas and more than
   90% of the acreage in Louisiana.  CP cultivars occupy a significant
   portion of the acreage in many countries world-wide, especially in
   Central America.

       The variety development program includes disease, agronomic, and
   quality testing to determine the best yielding varieties under South
   Florida Conditions.  These data are reviewed by industry production
   managers, who determine whether any new variety will be released to the
   industry.  Participation in the program is led by the USDA-ARS, the
   University of Florida - Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences
   (IFAS) and the Florida Sugar Cane League, Inc.  This is a model for
   cooperative breeding programs around the world.

       Much of the sugarcane in Florida is grown in the Everglades.  An
   urgent challenge facing growers is to produce sugarcane profitably
   while still supporting this unique and endangered ecosystem.  To help
   growers achieve this goal, our scientists are selecting and developing
   sugarcane varieties that (1) will help growers reduce the phosphorus in
   their water, and (2) will tolerate higher water tables.
