http://www.metallurgy.nist.gov/opportunities.html

                   Navigational links also at page bottom

                   National Research Council Post-Doctoral
                  Opportunities in the Metallurgy Division

     NRC Postdoctoral Associateship

     The National Research Council, through its Associateship Programs
     Office, conducts a national competition to recommend and make awards
     to outstanding scientists and engineers at the postdoctoral level
     for tenure as guest researchers at participating federal
     laboratories. In the program sponsored by the National Institute of
     Standards and Technology (NIST), a Research Associate is a resident
     researcher and a temporary employee of NIST. Associateships are
     analogous to fellowships at the postdoctoral level in universities,
     and are not intended to be permanent professional career positions.
     Opportunities at NIST are open only to citizens of the United
     States. Permanent residency status does not qualify as citizenship.
     Research Associateships at NIST are awarded only to persons who have
     held their doctorate less than five years at the time of
     application, and are offered on a two-year term basis. An evaluation
     is conducted after one year to ensure the Associate is making
     suitable progress.

     Each applicant must submit a research proposal that relates to a
     specific opportunity for research at NIST. A proposal may be
     submitted at any time, but reviews are conducted once each year in
     February. One or more Advisers are associated with each research
     opportunity. An Advisor is a person who conducts or directs research
     in that particular field, and who will act as a surrogate for the
     NRC in monitoring an Associate. All matters relating to an
     Associate's research program fall under the Adviser's purview. A
     proposal must first be approved by the Adviser and endorsed by the
     NIST Program Representative to be eligible for an award.

     For more detailed information on eligibility requirements, salaries
     and benefits, and the proposal review process and schedule, go to
     the NIST-NRC web site.

     Opportunities for Research

     The following abstracts describe areas of research in the Metallurgy
     Division for which Associateships may be awarded. Before writing a
     proposal, applicants are advised to communicate directly with the
     Adviser, who can provide more specific information on current
     research and available facilities.
       _______________________________________________________________

     Dislocation Structure Evolution in Metals

     LE Levine 50.85.21.B3829

     The bulk mechanical properties of metals change drastically during
     plastic deformation; many of these changes are caused by the
     evolution of complicated dislocation structures that take the form
     of cells at large strains. Understanding this process is one of the
     oldest and most difficult problems in materials science. The metal
     forming industry (one of the largest industries in the US) would
     also benefit from a viable solution. We have developed several new
     synchrotron x-ray and neutron scattering measurement techniques for
     studying the evolution process in situ. In addition, we are
     developing a new statistical physics approach to the general theory
     of plastic deformation, and are collaborating with mesoscale and
     atomic scale modelers at other institutions. Excellent transmission
     electron microscope (TEM) facilities are also available, and there
     is a strong need for in situ TEM studies of dislocation wall
     evolution.


     Analytical and High-Resolution Transmission Electron Microscopy of
     Phase Transformations

     LA Bendersky

     50.85.51.B1951

     Different methods of analytical and high-resolution electron
     microscopy are used to characterize microstructures resulting from
     complex phase transformations. These transformations include
     ordering/disordering, displacive (martensitic) reactions, and phase
     separation (spinodal and precipitation). Research materials range
     from metallurgical alloys (Ti, Al), to intermetallics, to ceramics.
     A goal of this research is to obtain a correlation between
     microstructures, kinetics, and thermodynamics of phase formation.


     Diffusion Processes in Metals

     JW Cahn, CA Handwerker

     50.85.51.B1956

     Diffusion-controlled phenomena and their influence on metallurgical
     processes such as alloy surface modification, precipitation, and
     sintering are of interest. Measurements and predictive modeling of
     grain-boundary diffusion, the diffusional degradation of protective
     coatings, and other interface-modification procedures are pursued
     theoretically and experimentally using electron microscopy and
     microanalytical techniques. Results are related to process variables
     encountered in metals processing.


     Mechanisms and Kinetics of Metallurgical Phase Changes

     JW Cahn, RJ Schaefer, WJ Boettinger, JA Warren

     50.85.51.B1957

     A broad investigation is continuing on all aspects of phase changes
     including nucleation, growth, spinodal decomposition, diffusion,
     strains, defects, interface structure and mobility, and for all
     phase changes including solidification, vapor deposition,
     electrodeposition, solid-state precipitation, order-disorder, and
     coarsening. The object is to understand the mechanism in order to
     influence kinetics and morphologies and thereby the properties of
     alloys.


     Solidification Processing of Alloys

     WJ Boettinger, SR Coriell, RJ Schaefer, JA Warren

     50.85.51.B1958

     To determine the optimum conditions for metals processing, this
     project is concerned with the effects of solidification conditions
     on the microstructure and properties of multicomponent alloys.
     Research involves both theoretical and experimental aspects of
     solidification, including rapid solidification, with emphasis on
     (1) evolution of microstructure by processes such as nucleation and
     growth of alloy phases from the melt and solid-state transformations
     during cooling; (2) convection in the melt, including its effect in
     micro- and macrosegregation; and (3) the effect of processing
     variables on microstructure-sensitive properties in metals.


     Modeling of Solidification Processes

     SR Coriell

     50.85.51.B1959

     Modeling of alloy solidification requires solution of the heat-flow,
     solute-diffusion, and fluid-flow equations. In general, the
     crystal-melt interface is a free boundary whose shape and position
     must be calculated. Numerical algorithms are developed for a number
     of processing techniques. Examples of high-speed calculations that
     are feasible include (1) two- and three-dimensional steady-state
     cellular morphologies during directional solidification in the
     absence of fluid flow and (2) solute segregation that is caused by
     double-diffusive convection during vertical Bridgman growth of
     alloys. The general problem of the interaction of fluid flow with
     crystal-melt interfaces is of interest.


     Microstructural Characterization and Structure-Property
     Relationships

     FW Gayle

     50.85.51.B1961

     Research emphasizes characterizing the microstructure of single- and
     multiphase materials to determine the relationship of structure with
     properties. Several characterization techniques are available, with
     special emphasis placed on the tools of optical and analytical and
     high-resolution transmission electron microscopy. Materials range
     from strength aluminum alloys and materials in electronic packaging
     to newly discovered intermetallic phases and the examination of
     subtle ordering reactions.


     Nonequilibrium Interfaces

     CA Handwerker, WJ Boettinger, JA Warren

     50.85.51.B1962

     During heat treatment of materials, there exist many situations in
     which interfaces can be modeled as being at equilibrium or near
     equilibrium. Nevertheless, it has been recognized that complex
     processes and structures at interfaces can occur during fabrication
     of multicomponent or multiphase materials when the system is not at
     equilibrium.

     For example, nonequilibrium interfaces develop during fabrication of
     composites, during solder wetting and spreading, liquid-phase
     sintering, and in other applications. Descriptions will be sought
     for the thermodynamics and kinetics of nonequilibrium interfaces. In
     addition to understanding interface processes, a further goal is the
     development of predictive models that could provide guidelines for
     engineering materials with specific physical, chemical, and
     mechanical properties.


     Advanced Materials Processing: Metal Spray and Compaction

     SD Ridder

     50.85.51.B1963

     Advanced processing techniques are used to produce alloy powders and
     spray deposits with increased homogeneity, extended solid
     solubility, reduced inclusion content, and finer microstructures.
     Techniques include gas atomization, dc plasma spray,
     electrohydrodynamic atomization, and melt-spinning/comminution.
     Research focuses on the processing, characterization, and compaction
     of aluminum, high nitrogen stainless steels, magnetic alloys, and
     superalloys. Studies are made on the microstructure, corrosion, and
     mechanical properties of particulate and consolidated materials.
     Specific attention is directed toward establishing relationships
     between processing conditions and microstructure and alloy
     properties. These relationships are used to develop predictive
     models for these powder processes.


     Magnetic Structure of Alloys

     RD Shull, RD McMichael

     50.85.51.B1964

     Research concerns the investigation of the magnetic properties of
     alloys and their relationship to metallurgical structures and
     processing variables. Computer-controlled equipment is available for
     alternating-current magnetic-susceptibility measurements as a
     function of frequency, temperature, and magnetic field. An automated
     vibrating sample magnetometer, a high-field (5-T) superconducting
     quantum interference device magnetometer, a magnetic force
     microscope, and a newly developed magneto-optical indicator film
     apparatus are available; as well as equipment for ferromagnetic
     resonance, Mössbauer effect, magnetocaloric effect, and
     magnetoresistance measurements. Interests include magnetic
     properties of advanced materials including compositionally modulated
     alloys, magnetic multilayers, magnetic nanocomposites, granular
     metals, high-temperature superconductors, metallic glasses,
     icosahedral crystals, and others. Time effects and relaxation
     phenomena are of particular interest. Applications to
     nondestructive-evaluation techniques, e.g., Barkhausen effect, are
     also pursued.


     Magnetic Imaging

     AJ Shapiro, RD Shull, RD McMichael

     50.85.51.B1965

     We use magnetic force microscopy (MFM), scanning electron microscopy
     (SEM), and magneto-optical indicator film (MOIF) imaging techniques
     as nondestructive methods to characterize magnetic domain structure
     in various technologically important magnetic materials such as spin
     valves, ultrathin multilayer, and granular systems. Well known
     capabilities of MFM and SEM are complemented by a new imaging
     method: MOIF. The domain structure is imaged with this technique
     through the interaction of polarized light with a transparent
     magneto-optical indicator film, which is placed on top of a magnetic
     sample. Since the polarization of light is affected by the
     magneto-static field of the sample (Faraday effect), we can identify
     the sample’s magnetic domain structure through local changes in
     light polarization in the indicator film using a polarizing
     microscope. The MOIF method is expected to become a standard
     nondestructive quality control imaging technique for the next
     generation of magnetic sensors and storage devices. Using the above
     methods, we are studying static and dynamic magnetization and
     remagnetization processes and their relationships to thin-film
     characteristics and defects.


     Mössbauer Effect Spectroscopy

     RD Shull, AJ Shapiro

     50.85.51.B1966

     Experiments focus on the magnetic, electronic, and metallurgical
     properties of materials. Computer-controlled equipment is available
     to determine and analyze Mössbauer-effect spectra including
     gamma-ray transmission and scattering modes and conversion electron
     detection. Iron, tin, and gadolinium sources are available. A
     superconducting magnet is available for high-field (5-T) work. Work
     includes the measurement of local environments in high-Tc
     superconductors, magnetic polarization in glassy metal alloys, and
     relaxation effects in nanocomposite granular metals.


     Magnetic Properties of High-Tc Superconducting Oxides

     RD Shull

     50.85.51.B1967

     Research focuses on the magnetic state of bulk, thin-film, and
     single crystal high-transition-temperature superconducting oxides
     between room temperature and 2 K by means of alternating-current
     magnetic susceptometry, vibrating sample magnetometry,
     superconducting quantum interference device magnetometer, microwave
     absorption, and Mössbauer spectroscopy. Field- and time-dependence
     studies at various temperatures are performed to specify the
     magnetic flux-pinning characteristics of these new materials, and
     the effects of magnetic and nonmagnetic atomic substitutions are
     used to probe the origin of superconductivity in these oxides. In
     addition, the effect of new processing routes on the flux-pinning
     characteristics of these materials is being investigated.


     Multicomponent Nanocrystalline Materials: Magnetic Engineering

     RD Shull

     50.85.51.B1968

     Atomic engineering attempts to tailor materials with specific
     magnetic properties focus on a new class of composite materials
     called nanocomposites. For these very-fine-particle (~ 2—20-nm)
     materials comprised of a metal and a nonmetal, one or both of which
     are magnetic, the magnetic properties vary considerably with the
     volume fractions and distribution of the constituents.

     Preparation of these materials by vapor-phase condensation
     techniques (vapor deposition, laser ablation, and sputtering) and by
     chemical methods (including sol-gel, metal-organo, and ionic
     substitution routes) is explored. Coupled with characterization by
     alternating-current susceptibility, bulk magnetization,
     magneto-optic Kerr-effect, magnetocaloric effect, and
     Mössbauer-effect observations, nanocomposites constitute an exciting
     self-contained laboratory for atomic-level fabrication of thin-film
     devices that possess novel and unique magnetic properties. Extensive
     efforts in both the experimental and theoretical (spin-glass
     behavior, micromagnetics, and percolation theory) aspects of these
     materials are pursued.


     Magnetic Modeling and Measurement of Materials

     RD McMichael

     50.85.51.B1969

     Research focuses on micromagnetic modeling and hysteresis modeling
     of magnetic materials, and on experimental verification of these
     models. Theoretical work includes micromagnetic modeling of moment
     and field distributions in magnetic materials. Specific interest
     areas include formulation and solution of standard problems and
     development of a portable micromagnetic computer code. Experimental
     verification of micromagnetic models is obtained on lithographically
     prepared samples from magnetic force microscopy imaging and through
     other experimental techniques including ac susceptibility
     measurements, SQUID magnetometry, magnetoresistance measurements,
     and ferromagnetic resonance.


     Ferromagnetic Resonance

     RD McMichael

     50.85.51.B1970

     Ferromagnetic resonance (FMR) techniques are used to measure various
     energies which affect the magnetic properties of magnetic materials,
     including shape, magnetocrystalline, magnetostrictive, and
     surface-induced anisotropy energies in thin magnetic films and
     interactions between magnetic layers. Recent studies have included
     investigations of exchange bias effects in
     ferromagnetic/antiferromagnet bilayers, damping mechanisms in thin
     films, and thermal stability of multilayer spin valve films. FMR
     measurements are complemented by vector vibrating sample
     magnetometry, SQUID magnetometry, magnetoresistance measurements,
     and magnetic force microscopy.


     Electrodeposition of Alloys

     GR Stafford

     50.85.51.B1972

     Several binary alloys produced by electrodeposition are under
     investigation, including metal-metalloid systems (Ni-P), systems
     which undergo anomalous deposition (Fe-Ni), composition modulated
     alloys (Cu-Ni), and ordered intermetallics. The major fields of
     research include (1) electrochemical investigation of deposition
     mechanisms, (2) characterization of mechanical properties and
     microstructure, and (3) characterization of corrosion performance.


     Structure of Electrodeposited Aluminum Alloys

     GR Stafford

     50.85.51.B1973

     This research program focuses on the electrodeposition of aluminum
     alloys from chloroaluminate and room temperature molten salt
     electrolytes. Emphasis will be placed on melt chemistry, complex ion
     formation, the thermodynamics and kinetics of alloy deposition, and
     the microstructure of electrodeposited films.


     Electrodeposition of Strained-Layer Superlattices

     TP Moffat, RD McMichael

     50.85.51.B1974

     A variety of magnetic superlattices are being produced by
     electrodeposition. Emphasis is placed on understanding the
     relationship between the processing variables and the resulting
     structural and magnetic properties, and on the role of
     crystallographic orientation and interfacial roughness on the giant
     magnetoresistance. Experiments are in progress that examine the
     dynamics associated with electrocrystallization of iron group metals
     on single crystal or highly oriented seed layer substrates. The
     structure and morphology of these materials are characterized by
     scattering methods and scanning probe microscopy. Similarly, a wide
     range of techniques are available for characterizing the magnetic
     properties.


     Metal-Matrix Composite Materials

     RJ Fields

     50.85.51.B5013

     Research focuses on modeling the consolidation of discontinuously
     reinforced metal-matrix composites. Methods of evaluating the models
     will be developed, with particular emphasis placed on meaningful
     physical measurements. Our goal is to develop a comprehensive data
     base of consolidation behavior with a concurrent predictive
     capability based on analytical models and an expert system. These
     models will reflect the nature of the reinforcement/matrix, and the
     characteristics of the powder particles themselves. Equipment
     includes an instrumented isostatic press, vacuum sintering furnace,
     vacuum hot press, and characterization equipment for porous bodies.


     Mechanical Properties of Nanolaminated Materials

     T Foecke

     50.85.51.B1976

     A rapidly developing area of interest is the study of nanoscale
     layered materials for their unique mechanical properties. Research
     involves determining the deformation and fracture micromechanisms
     that operate in this class of materials and the optimization of
     properties using transmission electron microscopy, ex situ and in
     situ mechanical testing, and nano- and micro-hardness measurements.
     We determine structure/property relationships on multilayers
     produced by sputtering, e-beam evaporation, and electrodeposition.
     Metal/metal, metal/ceramic, and ceramic/ceramic systems are
     available for study. Numerous opportunities can be arranged for
     external interactions.


     Multilayer Materials

     D Josell

     50.85.51.B1977

     Potential structural applications require an understanding of
     tensile and creep properties of multilayer materials, and potential
     thermal barrier applications require an understanding of both the
     thermal transport properties and stabilities of these structures at
     elevated temperatures. Therefore, we have developed methods for
     fabricating multilayer materials and for studying their creep,
     tensile, and thermal transport properties. Past creep studies
     provided values for free energies of the interfaces in these
     materials. These free energies are used to predict the morphological
     stability of layered structures. Past research using the Q-switched
     pulsed laser heating system to study thermal transport in micron
     thick coatings provided upper bounds for the thermal resistance
     associated with interfaces in multilayers. These values determine
     the practicality of the materials as coating for turbine blades.
     Research on the formation of novel crystalline structures in
     multilayers is an offshoot of studies of the tensile properties of
     low-density multilayers.


     Studies in Formability and Deformation

     RJ Fields, T Foecke

     50.85.51.B1978

     Research centers on fundamental aspects of formability. Our goal is
     to refine the basic theories of deformation and formulate general
     concepts, emphasizing the role of plasticity and using concepts from
     dislocation theory. In addition, this theoretical research is
     correlated with experimental research in the Division. Studies focus
     on (1) the interpretation of formability testing results, (2) the
     reduction and analysis of formability testing data, and (3) the
     development of physical constitutive models to predict formability
     behavior. Use and extension of finite element analyses in these
     studies is anticipated.


     Microstructural Basis of Formability

     RJ Fields, T Foecke

     50.85.51.B1979

     A material’s formability arises from particular details of its
     microstructure. Research programs range from sheet metal forming to
     dislocation patterning studies of light weight and commercially
     important materials. These investigations attempt to understand or
     rationalize the formability in terms of the underlying
     microstructural origins of deformation and plasticity. Both
     experimental and theoretical approaches are pursued. Mechanical
     testing equipment includes servohydraulic closed-loop machines,
     screw-driven universal testing machines (tension, compression, and
     torsion), and environmental chambers and ovens that are accessories
     for these machines. Microstructural characterization can be
     performed using available optical, scanning electron, transmission
     electron, and scanning transmission electron microscopes. Computers
     for data acquisition, machine control, and computation are also
     available.


     Manufacturing Problems in Magnetic Thin Films

     WF Egelhoff, Jr

     50.85.51.B1980

     We are studying the scientific principles that underlie
     manufacturing methods for magnetic thin-film products to determine
     when and why effects such as interdiffusion, surface segregation,
     and extrinsic contamination affect product quality. Films can be
     prepared by several different methods, and their composition,
     morphology, and structure can be correlated with their magnetic
     properties. Some of the techniques include magnetron sputtering,
     electron-beam evaporation, x-ray photoelectron and Auger-electron
     spectroscopy, ion-scattering spectroscopy, magnetoresistance
     measurements, the magneto-optical Kerr effect, scanning tunneling
     microscopy, and electron diffraction.


     Proximal Probe Studies of the Electrode-Electrolyte Interface

     TP Moffat

     50.85.51.B1981

     In situ scanning tunneling and atomic force microscopy are being
     used to investigate a variety of technologically relevant phenomena
     which occur at electrode-electrolyte interfaces. Currently, we are
     investigating (1) metal on metal epitaxy by electrochemical
     processing; (2) the role of various organic and inorganic additives
     in the microstructural evolution of electrodeposited metal films;
     and (3) the structure and dynamics of corroding interfaces with
     emphasis on de-alloying phenomenon, and formation and breakdown of
     passivating oxide overlayers on transition metals.


     Simulation of Electrocrystallization Processes

     TP Moffat, GR Stafford

     50.85.51.B1982

     Growth of thin metal films is a subject of interest which
     incorporates different processing schemes ranging from
     electrocrystallization, to physical vapor deposition and chemical
     vapor deposition. Our understanding of the scaling behavior
     associated with film growth is being revolutionized by recent
     developments in the characterization of physical vapor deposition by
     surface science methods coupled with the ability to perform
     realistic simulations. Placing the electrodeposition process on a
     foundation similar to that which exists for metal deposition by
     sputtering, evaporation, and molecular beam epitaxy will require a
     close coupling between experiment and simulation. Although
     experimental methods (e.g., scanning probe microscopy and surface
     x-ray scattering) are beginning to reveal some of the atomistic
     details associated with film growth, limited emphasis has been
     placed on exploring the opportunities provided by computer
     simulation. As long as appropriate consideration is given to the
     site bias dependence of the electrochemical reduction reaction,
     realistic simulation of the electrocrystallization process should be
     accessible.


     Microstructure and Property Relationships in Materials

     JE Bonevich

     50.85.51.B3830

     Research focuses on the role of structure and chemistry of
     interfaces on the properties of metallurgical and ceramic systems.
     Characterization techniques include high resolution and analytical
     transmission electron microscopy coupled with compositional mapping
     on the atomic scale. Research programs include magnetic spin valve
     materials, thin-film ferroelectrics, multilayer nanostructured
     materials, as well as microstructure and properties of on-chip
     interconnects in ultralarge-scale integrated circuits.


     Copper Metallization

     TP Moffat, GR Stafford

     50.85.51.B3962

     Industry is currently in the midst of changing from aluminum to
     copper for semiconductor interconnects. Several manufacturers have
     adopted electrodeposition technology as the processing method of
     choice. Research focuses on understanding the impact of various
     electrolyte additives on the morphological evolution, structure, and
     properties of the deposited materials. For the future, we are
     exploring novel schemes for depositing dilute copper alloys with
     enhanced resistance to electromigration.


     Phase Equilibria in Multicomponent Alloys

     UR Kattner, WJ Boettinger

     50.85.51.B4438

     Knowledge of stable and metastable phase relations in multicomponent
     materials provides valuable information for the development of
     processing strategies for these materials. It is necessary to
     critically evaluate the data and perform critical experiments to
     derive the most accurate phase diagram. Thermodynamic calculation
     with the CALPHAD method provides a unique tool for testing the
     consistency of phase diagram and thermodynamic data and the
     assessment of higher order systems through extrapolation of the
     subsystems. We are interested in research involving critical
     evaluation and experiments on phase diagrams of practical importance
     as well as the coupling of thermodynamic and kinetic analyses.
     __________________________________________________________________

              Metallurgy Division of MSEL | metallurgy@nist.gov
      Home | Mission | History | Research Programs | Research Groups |
                         Publications | Personnel |
      Research Opportunities | Facilities | NIST Staff Only | Search |
                                Outside Links
                 __________________________________________

       The National Institute of Standards and Technology is an agency
         of the U.S. Commerce Department Technology Administration

    Last modified: Wednesday, 21 November, 2001 by Metallurgy Webmeister
