http://www.virec.research.med.va.gov/TOPBUTTONS/FAQS.HTM



   [VIREC_HOME.GIF] Site Index

                                      HSRData Mail

                                           Contact VIReC

                                                        Search the Site


                         Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)


                                     Q1
   How should I estimate the costs (for a proposal budget) of downloading
   information from the Austin databases (PTF, NPCD, etc.)?

                                     Q2
   How can I obtain information regarding the size/number of beds on VA
   and non-VA hospitals?

                                     Q3
   Why am I getting different outpatient utilization rates (per 1000) for
   veterans when I use the SF File and Census?

                                     Q4
   How do I calculate the distance between several hospitals and clinics?

                                     Q5
   What is a data warehouse?

                                     Q6
   Are pharmaceutical usage and costs data available on a per patient
   basis in the VA?

                                     Q7
   What VistA menus or modules do you recommend using for patient chart
   reviews in a multi-site study?

                                     Q8
   What databases and report tools are available to examine costs of VA
   care?

                                     Q9
   What are the "Blue Books" on VA data and how can I get a copy?


   Q1.    I am a Health Research Scientist and am preparing an IIR
   proposal that would include accessing nationwide VA databases (PTF,
   NPCD, dSs).  In general, I plan to download relevant information and
   then analyze it on PCs or a workstation.  I understand that researchers
   should now expect to pay for accessing these databases. My primary
   question is, how do I estimate/determine the costs associated with the
   information that I plan to download from Austin?

   It is our understanding that HSR&D is currently not being charged for
   accessing these databases, but that this will be a likely occurrence.
   Indeed, some Centers of Excellence have received bills for services.

   The Austin Automation Center (AAC) lists the FY 1999 Rate Schedule on
   their web site at http://www.aac.va.gov/products.htm. This information
   is useful to those researchers who have a clear understanding of how
   much CPU time, the number of times they will do tape mounts, and the
   amount of storage space they will require for their projects.  However,
   since a very small minority of researchers knows these parameters prior
   to their investigations, estimating costs for HSR&D research projects
   to include as a line item on an IIR budget page is somewhat
   problematic.

   The AAC does have a spreadsheet, by individual user, that contains the
   cost the user would have incurred based on their usage of the AAC
   [access the web site http://152.125.190.52/rmtsep.htm, click on the
   link to view or download cumulative charges by individual for other
   than HQ Staff,” log on anonymously (leave the password field blank),
   and cursor over to Column N to obtain total cost].  However, this will
   only help researchers who have used the AAC, not new users, and assumes
   that past, current, and future usage will be the same.

   You may want to inquire from your colleagues who do use the AAC for
   accessing data what their costs were and use these figures as a
   “guesstimate” for your proposal.  At this time, it is unknown whether
   the AAC costs will be the responsibility of the individual researcher
   or HSR&D Service in Washington. If we hear anything more on this
   subject, we will post the information on our web site as this matter is
   of interest to all researchers.

   Button: Follow this TOP will link to the top of the page

   Q2.   How can I obtain information regarding the size (i.e., number of
   beds) of VA and non-VA hospitals?

   This information can be obtained from several different sources:

   1.  The most current data on the number of beds in VA facilities is
   available from the Bed Control Database.  This database available on
   the VISN Support Service Center’s KLF Menu system web site is located
   at (Intranet) http://152.125.190.53/infomgnt/canrpts.htm.  Data can be
   obtained on actual beds or average beds (i.e., the average number of
   operating beds from the beginning of the fiscal year [10/1/current
   year] to the end of whatever month you request).  Reports can be
   generated for total hospital, internal medicine, intermediate medicine,
   neurology, blind, psych, rehabilitation medicine, spinal cord, and
   surgery beds as well as total facility, PRRTP, domiciliary, and nursing
   home beds.  Reports can be obtained on the national, VISN, or station
   level and the data can be downloaded into spreadsheet formats.  Bed
   Control Directive 10-95-009 is also available on the site.  This
   document provides definitions for some of the various categories of
   beds within the database and explains how the bed control database
   works.
   2.  “The Summary of Medical Programs (SMP) presents facility specific
   program data for fiscal  year 1997 (October 1996 through September
   1997) for VA medical centers.   Medical centers are listed
   alphabetically by State within each Veterans Integrated Service Network
   (VISN).”  The site located at
   http://vaww.va.gov/sumedpr/fy97/sumfy97.htm includes VA data covering
   average number of beds for each facility, (also divided into
   psychiatric beds, surgical beds, and medical beds), number of
   applications processed, outpatient visits, and  nursing home care.  In
   addition, there is some information about non-VA hospital care.) This
   information is only available to VA Intranet users.
   3.  A hard copy directory of all VA and DoD health care facilities is
   issued annually in a special edition of Federal Practitioner published
   by Quadrant Healthcom, Inc.  This directory contains information not
   only on the number of beds but on the number of veterans in the primary
   service area and inpatients, outpatients, and clinic outpatients as
   well as total health care expenditures and total pharmaceutical
   expenditures.  A current list of key personnel also is presented for
   each hospital.  Copies of the directory are available for purchase by
   calling (973)701-2761.  Federal Practitioner's web site is located at
   http://www.fedprac.com. The data is not available in computerized
   formats.
   4.  U.S. Medicine produces “The U.S. Medicine Directory and Guide to
   Federal Medicine;” an annual directory of all U.S. Federal Government
   medical treatment facilities.  Listings include mail, telephone, fax,
   e-mail and web address information, as well as info on number of
   operating beds, number of inpatient and outpatient visits.  The
   directory is available only in hard copy and is not available in
   machine readable format.  U.S. Medicine can be reached at
   202-463-6000.  Their web site is located at http://www.usmedicine.com.
   5.  The American Hospital Association's (AHA) Guide to the Health Care
   Field is another resource you may want to consult.  AHA is probably the
   best source for bed information in non-VA hospitals.  According to the
   AHA, “The AHA Guide is the most comprehensive directory on the health
   care field.  This annual publication profiles hospitals, health care
   systems, networks, alliances, and other health care organizations,
   agencies, and providers.  Hospital-specific data include utilization
   data, expenses, facilities, and services and more.   The AHA Guide
   listings include: networks and their hospitals, health care systems and
   their hospitals, HMOs, and others.  The Guide is available in machine
   readable format in the form of the AHA Annual Survey Data Base.  “Since
   1946, AHA has conducted its Annual Survey to assemble one of the most
   utilized and respected health care provider databases.  This powerful
   database contains hospital-specific items on more than 6,000 hospitals
   and health care systems, including utilization, organizational
   structures, personnel, hospital services, finances, and more.”
   Information on these and other resources are available by contacting
   AHA Healthcare InfoSource products at (800)AHA-2626 or visiting their
   web site at  http://www.aha.org/datasources/default.html.  Data is for
   VA and non-VA hospitals. One added note for VA researchers, AHA Annual
   Survey databases are available in flat and SAS data files through the
   Austin Automation Center (AAC) or through the KLFMenu.   Further
   information can be obtained through the AAC Helpdesk at (512)326-6780
   or by contacting the VA Management Science Group (MSG) at
   (781)687-2678.
   6.  The Hospital Blue Book published by  Billian Publishing, Inc.
   “contains listings for over 6,800 hospitals in the U.S., Puerto Rico,
   and the Virgin Islands.  The listings provide hospital names,
   addresses, telephone and fax numbers, contact names for over 209,000
   key personnel with 109 specific titles, and special services in 66
   categories.  Also included are Healthcare Systems with listings of
   affiliated hospitals.”  This resource contains hospital bed size
   information for VA as well as non-VA hospitals and is available in
   machine readable format.  Additional information is available by
   calling Billian at (800)533-8484 or viewing the Web site at
   http://www.billian.com.
   7.  SMG Marketing Group, a private marketing concern has a wide variety
   of health care industry products, including databases on the U.S.
   hospital market, the U.S. hospital market historical, U.S. hospital
   residency, U.S. hospital personnel, U.S. open-heart surgery facilities,
   freestanding outpatient surgery centers, multi-hospital systems/group
   purchasing organizations, center centers, and on solid organ transplant
   centers.  They also issue a U.S. Hospital Report and Directory and a
   U.S. hospital market atlas that shows the location of every U.S.
   hospital over 50 beds.  The U.S. hospital market database contains
   “detailed individual demographic, utilization, and operations profiles
   containing more than 300 data elements per hospital on more than 7,000
   U.S. hospitals.”  The U.S. Hospital Report and Directory “analyzes the
   hospital market including topics such as demographics, payer data, DRG
   analysis, surgery trends and financial information for hospitals
   throughout the United States.  The directory contains operational
   statistics and geographic listings of more than 7,000 U.S. hospitals.”
   SMG can be contacted at (800)678-3026 or on the web at
   http://www.smgusa.com/acute.htm.
   8.  The Area Resource File (ARF) of the Bureau of Health Professions is
   maintained by Quality Resource Systems, Inc.  “ARF is a county-specific
   health resources information system designed to be used by planners,
   policymakers, researchers, and other professionals interested in the
   nation's health care delivery system and factors that may impact health
   status and health care in the U.S.”  Data in the basic file fall into
   eight categories: 1) codes and classifications, 2) health professions,
   3) health facilities,  4) utilization, 5) expenditures, 6) population
   characteristics and economic data, 7) environment, and 8) health
   professions training.  The information on hospitals is derived from
   American Hospital Association data.  The data is available for purchase
   on CD-ROM, magnetic tape, and 3480 cartridge and other formats on a
   customized basis.  Information on veterans hospitals (and beds) is only
   available for 1995.  Quality Resource Systems, Inc. can be reached at
   (703) 352-7393.  Their web site is at http://www.arfsys.com.
   9.  The Health Care Financing Administration collects  some hospital
   bed information within their Medicare Cost Provider File, Minimum Data
   Set, Hospital Cost Report Extract, Public Use Files – Provider of
   Services File,  and Provider Specific Files.  Information on the data
   sets can be obtained through the HCFA web site at
   http://www.hcfa.gov/stats/stats.htm or call Dave Zanardelli at
   410-786-1882.

   Please remember that bed information from one dataset probably will not
   match data from any other set due to differences in definitions.  You
   need to find out if you are dealing with staffed beds, statistical
   beds, licensed beds, etc. Some additional information can be obtained
   through state licensure departments (all hospitals), from VISN web
   sites (VA hospitals by region), and individual institutional web sites.

   Button: Follow this TOP will link to the top of the page
   Q3.   Why am I getting different outpatient utilization rates (per
   1,000) for veterans when I use the SF files and census data?

   You need to keep in mind that the PTF and SF files are measuring
   workload at each facility.  This encompasses all medical care given at
   the facility including, for example, flu shots to employees.  To
   calculate utilization rates for veterans, you must be sure that you are
   looking at only veterans.  There are two variables on the SAS system
   files that will help you exclude non-veterans from your denominator:
   MEANS and ELIG (see the resource guide for values that apply).  By
   excluding non-veterans, you will see utilization rates that are more in
   line with what you expected.

   Button: Follow this TOP will link to the top of the page

   Q4.   How do I calculate the distance between several hospitals and
   clinics?

   There are several ways to get the answer you need.  If you know the zip
   codes for each of the facilities, you can calculate distance between
   any pair of zip codes.  A web site that will do these calculations for
   you is http://zip.langenberg.com. Please remember that distances
   calculated in this manner are straight line or air distances.  Actual
   travel distances will be somewhat longer. Beside zip code associations,
   the site also links to Census and other sites containing valuable
   geographic information.  If you know latitude/longitude coordinates for
   each of the sites, you should check out
   http://www.census.gov/cgi-bin/geo/gisfaq?Q5.1.

   Within the VA, the Planning Systems Support Group (PSSG) also conducts
   distance analyses.  PSSG can provide straight-line distance from any
   zip code to any location along with a wide range of data including
   Category A and eligibility.  Visit the PSSG web site at
   http://vaww.pssg.med.va.gov (VA Intranet only) or call 352-374-6080 for
   additional information.

   There also are some inexpensive software products such as Tripmaker™
   put out by Rand McNally that calculate quickest (that which takes the
   least amount of time), shortest (yields the smallest number of miles),
   and scenic routes between two cities.  The McNally web site can be
   found at http://randmcnally.com.

   Finally, the simplest way to calculate distance between two facilities,
   is to obtain an appropriate map and measure between the two points you
   are interested in obtaining mileage and apply the appropriate scale
   (numerical, inch-to-mile, graphical, etc.) Keep in mind that this
   method works best if the distance between the two points is not very
   far apart.  Remember that the shortest distance between two points is a
   Great Circle route that is measured on a three-dimensional globe and
   not extracted from a two-dimensional map sheet.  (VIReC staff wishes to
   thank Kevin Clark and Sherri LaVela of the Midwest Center for Health
   Services and Policy Research for sharing information on some of the
   aforementioned web links.)

   Button: Follow this TOP will link to the top of the page
   Q5.    What is a data warehouse?

   One of the best definitions the VIReC has found is available at
   http://www.cait.wustl.edu/papers/prism/vol1_no1/.

   Button: Follow this TOP will link to the top of the page
   Q6.  Is information on pharmaceutical usage and costs data available on
   a per patient basis in the VA?

   Yes, VIReC has been working with the Pharmacy Benefits Management
   Strategic Health Group (PBMSHG) in an effort to provide researchers
   with the latest information about such data.  To date, there is nothing
   currently available to researchers, but you are correct that PBMSHG
   plan to warehouse data on a per patient basis.  There are plans to
   accept data requests later this year and access issues regarding the
   database currently are being discussed.  Additional information on
   PBMSHG can be found at http://www.dppm.med.va.gov.

   Button: Follow this TOP will link to the top of the page
   Q7.   What VistA menus do you recommend our site staff using for
   patient chart reviews for a multi-site study?

   The two best applications, within VA facilities, for seeing
   comprehensive single patient data are the Computerized Patient Record
   System (CPRS) and Health Summary (HS). Diagnoses, procedures, labs,
   radiology, prescriptions and adverse drug reactions are among the
   visible portions of patient information with either.

   CPRS was developed as a provider tool for decision support and
   ordering. However, print options are easily exercised. A graphical user
   interface (GUI) has been developed for CPRS. If not available at your
   workstation, the functionality will come from the VA's List Manager,
   which presents full screen views with viewing options presented at the
   bottom of the screen. Currently being implemented throughout VA, CPRS
   has an associated end-user training class.

   HS was specifically developed as a report tool. The various component
   information is appended and so appears sequentially (e.g., labs, then
   radiology) rather than simultaneously. However, by typing P-MESSAGE (or
   simply MAIL at many sites) when prompted for a DEVICE (printer), this
   report will be sent to your e-mail account. From there it can be
   forwarded to any valid e-mail address and further manipulated.

   Access to these menus is given by IRM (Information Resource Management
   Service) usually through a simple request which provides user
   identification and needs.

     See Volume V, Database Resource Guides by Beatty, Swindle, and
     Tomko.

   Button: Follow this TOP will link to the top of the page

   Q8.   What databases and report tools are available to examine the
   costs of VA care?

   In Volume IV of the Database Resource Guide
   (www.va.gov/station/583-indianapolis/resguide/vol4/tabcon.htm)by
   Beatty, Swindle, and Tomko you will find information on costing
   databases which may be helpful to you. There is also contact
   information (i.e., the data steward) in the Database Inventory of the
   resource guide.
   (http://www.va.gov/station/583-indianapolis/resguide/dbi.htm)

   If you are looking for local or VISN levels of analysis, you should
   contact your local, or VISN, VA DSS site manager. DSS financial data
   are available for departments and groups of departments. Also available
   through the DSS is an electronic record of patient encounters which
   contains demographic, clinical descriptive, utilization, cost, and
   revenue information. This information can be viewed for individual
   patient encounters or for groups of patients at the hospital and VISN
   level.

   To access any of the national VA costing databases at Austin, you will
   need to have an Austin account and the appropriate security level.

   Button: Follow this TOP will link to the top of the page
   Q9.   How can I get a copy of a resource guide (sometimes called the
   "Blue Books") produced by someone in HSR&D that documents what data is
   available and where the data can be located.

   The majority of the Database Resource Guide is available on the
   internet. If you need additional information not available on the web
   site please contact the VIREC via e-mail or by calling (708)202-2413.

   Button: Follow this TOP will link to the top of the page



    Acronyms | FAQs | Information for Veterans | Links | News | Resource
                                Guides | Home

   VA Privacy Statement | Problems/questions/comments concerning VIReC web
                site? Please e-mail: VIReC web site developer
