http://www.nipc.gov/publications/nipcpub/cyberprotests.pdf

   National Infrastructure Protection Center Cyber Protests: The Threat to
   the U.S. Information Infrastructure October 2001 Executive Summary
   Political events and emerging international situations will
   increasingly lead to cy- ber protests. The cyber protests that have
   occurred thus far have had little impact on U.S. infrastructure. As
   computing technology becomes faster and better, and hacking tools be-
   come more advanced and easier to use, cyber protesting and hacktivism
   will become more significant to U.S. national interests. Cyber
   protesters are becoming increasingly more organized and their
   techniques more sophisticated but, most likely, will continue to deface
   web sites and perform DoS attacks. There will also be an increase in
   the number of apparently unrelated hacking groups participating in the
   cyber protests. National boundaries will not always be clearly
   delineated in attacks on opposing organizations. International activity
   will also tend to spill over into the United States. Because the United
   States is a multicultural, world-leading nation it will suffer from
   attacks on cultur- ally related sites and structures in the future.
   Generally, the most popularly targeted sites are those belonging to
   government, educational, commercial, and cultural institutions.
   However, any site with an exploitable vulnerability will be susceptible
   to a cyber attack. The infrastructure has been targeted in other
   countries in cyber protests and it is expected that it will eventually
   be targeted in the United States as well. Cyber protesters certainly
   will target infrastructure more often and exploit opportunities to
   disrupt or damage it. Web sites that remain open to known hacking tools
   will have a higher probability of suffering defacement. Network
   administrators must remain educated and defenses must evolve along with
   the threats and offensive capabilities. Although the cyber protests
   seen today have already caused limited damage, the potential for future
   attacks could bring about large economic losses as well as potentially
   severe damage to the national infrastructure, affecting global markets
   as well as public safety. Introduction CYBER PROTESTS: THE THREAT TO
   THE U.S. INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE In the last decade, with the
   explosion of the size of the Internet, protests and po- litical
   activism have entered a new realm.1 Political activism on the Internet
   has already generated a wide range of activity, from using e-mail and
   web sites to organize, to web page defacements and denial-of-service
   (DoS) attacks.2 These politically motivated com- puter-based attacks
   are usually described as hacktivism, a marriage of hacking and politi-
   cal activism. In addition to the consistent activity of groups devoted
   to a specific long-term cause, the Internet has also seen short-term
   periods of intense political activity, which can be referred to as
   cyber protests. Cyber protests have become a worldwide phenomenon
   available to anyone with access to computers. Unrestrained by
   geographic boundaries, protesters have an enormous forum in which to be
   heard. Cyber protesters have a wide range of goals or objectives. Some
   hackers want to expose government corruption or fundamental violation
   of human rights; others just want to hack and cause mischief for fun.
   It has only been since 1998 that cyber protests have skyrocketed in
   popularity and become commonplace in today's computerized world. The
   most common type of cyber protest comes in the form of web page deface-
   ments. In such scenarios, a web site is compromised through some
   security deficiency and the hacker is able to alter it, many times
   placing propaganda, profanity, or porno- graphic images on it. This can
   range from being a nuisance and embarrassment for an or- ganization to
   a major economic loss for an e-commerce business. Protests and civil
   disturbances are nothing new. People unhappy with their situa- tions
   have always found outlets to spread their message, be it a peaceful
   sit-in, letter- writing campaign, picket march, or violent gang fight.
   Now, with the advent of the Inter- net and the growing number of people
   online, it has become easier to organize protests. That is not to say
   that every web defacement is an organized event on the part of some
   political organization. Many defacements are perpetrated by lone
   hackers that have no political motivation other than to create chaos.
   Nation-states and their respective citizens have also been involved in
   cyber protests. Several countries have waged ongoing cyber battles
   against each other through web defacements and DoS attacks. Mail
   bombing is a popular form of a DoS attack. Massive amounts of e-mail or
   web traffic are directed 1 Historically, groups have never had the
   global platform that the Internet provides today. Bulletin boards and
   group subscriber lists were the only computerized links protestors had
   from the 1970s through the early 1990s. The introduction of web
   browsers supporting graphics and multimedia content and the expansive
   growth of the Internet, coupled with the growing number of home
   computers, gave organizations a new outlet for distributing information
   or disrupting events for a political cause. The fact that many
   organiza- tions have a web site has enabled them to spread their
   beliefs to a wider audience. It has also enabled other groups to target
   them for attack. 2 Freedom of speech is a fundamental right protected
   by the Constitution of the United States of America that should not be
   taken lightly. Individuals and groups generally have the right to
   actively and legally sup- port those causes in which they believe. Many
   protesters and political activist groups have used cyberspace to
   organize and advance their memberships and activities. Using computers
   and the Internet has greatly increased protesters' effectiveness in
   spreading their message and achieving their goals. This paper deals
   with past incidents in which cyber protests have led to the destruction
   of property and other illegal activ i- ties, citing, specifically,
   foreign protests.  2  CYBER PROTESTS: THE THREAT TO THE U.S.
   INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE against a specific site, overloading it and
   causing it to crash. It should be noted, however, that some parties
   involved in these cyber protests are not citizens of the respective
   coun- tries. They might hold similar views or they might be involved
   just to participate in hacking different sites. Alliances can be
   tenuous at best for some of these groups. Chinese Hackers One high
   profile incident occurred in May 1999 after the United States acciden-
   tally bombed the Chinese embassy in Belgrade, Yugoslavia during the
   NATO air cam- paign. U.S. web sites were defaced in the name of China
   and massive e-mail campaigns were executed to gain sympathy and support
   for the Chinese cause. Government web sites were primarily targeted.
   The U.S. Departments of Energy and the Interior, and the National Park
   Service all suffered web page defacements. In addition, the White House
   web site was taken down for three days after it was continually mail
   bombed. This action was relatively unorganized in fashion, short in
   length, and affected a small number of U.S. sites. Pro-Chinese hackers
   also acted against Taiwan during the Taiwanese presidential elections
   in August and September 1999. Cyber protesters and hacktivists
   compromised 165 Taiwanese web sites, mainly defacing them, over the
   two-month period. Their ulti- mate goal, as it was stated, was to
   negatively affect and bring down Taiwan's infrastruc- ture. Among the
   targeted sites were electricity, economic institutions, telecommunica-
   tions, and air traffic control. Although teams began to develop and
   organize near the end of the operations, the damage was relatively
   light, similar to the attacks on U.S. sites ear- lier in the year.
   Importantly, strategic targeting and some organization of forces became
   accepted strategies for future protests and hacks. These hackers are
   likely to become more organized and more successful in future
   incidents.3 In late April and early May 2001 pro-Chinese hacktivists
   and cyber protesters be- gan a cyber assault on U.S. web sites. This
   resulted from an incident in early April where a Chinese fighter jet
   was lost at sea after colliding with a U.S. naval reconnaissance air-
   plane. It also coincided with the two-year anniversary of the Chinese
   embassy bombing by the United States in Belgrade and the traditionally
   celebrated May Day and Youth Day in China. Led by the Honkers Union of
   China (HUC), pro-Chinese hackers defaced or crashed over 100 seemingly
   random web sites, mainly .gov and .com, through DoS at- tacks and
   similar exploits.4 Although some of the tools used were sophisticated,
   they were readily available to both sides on the Internet. Many
   defacements of U.S. sites included posting pictures of the dead Chinese
   pi- lot Wang Wei and profane messages calling for the downfall of the
   United States. Pro- United States hackers responded with similar
   defacements, messages, and damage on 300 3 "ChinaTaiwan Hacker Wars,"
   Jane's Information Group Limited 1999. Volume 000/2565, 21 October 1999
   [online]; available from
   http://www.infowar.com/hacker/99/hack_102199a_j.shtml; Internet. 4 Rose
   Tang, "ChinaU.S. Cyber War Escalates," 01 May 2001 [online]; available
   from http://www.cnn.com/2001/WORLD/asiapcf/east/04/27/china.hackers;
   Internet.  3  CYBER PROTESTS: THE THREAT TO THE U.S. INFORMATION
   INFRASTRUCTURE Chinese web sites. Of interest is that some pro-Chinese
   hackers violated hacker etiquette by wiping some compromised servers. 5
   The rule of thumb is to deface or crash a web site but to leave the
   information intact, otherwise it is considered bad form.6 Israeli and
   Palestinian Hackers In October 2000, Israeli and Palestinian hackers
   engaged in adversarial hacking when the prolonged peace talks between
   the two groups broke down. During this difficult time, hackers seized
   the opportunity to attack web sites belonging to the opposition.
   Starting October 6, 2000, 40 Israeli web sites and at least 15
   Palestinian web sites suf- fered defacements at the hands of opposing
   hackers.7 This coincided, of course, with physical violence in the
   region. It was also a problem for U.S. based web sites. U.S. web sites
   will often fall victim, regardless of their lack of proximity or
   involvement in the events. For example, several U.S. sites were hacked
   by pro-Palestinian hacktivists, includ- ing the take down of a lobbyist
   group web site. The hackers then posted group membership information
   and credit card numbers.8 This activity did little to affect the United
   States as a whole although it illustrates how a seemingly unrelated
   event can potentially affect U.S. sites. The level of sophistication
   ranged from low-level activity using simple deface- ments to
   coordinated, relatively sophisticated attacks such as potential root
   access pene- trations. Several hacking tools were developed
   specifically for this engagement. Any type of attack was considered
   during this time, including the perpetration of viruses, DoS at- tacks
   with e-mail bombing, and sustained, amplified pinging attacks. Web
   sites contain- ing these various hacking tools were readily available
   for download to anyone who wanted to join the action. Pro-Palestinian
   hackers hit any type of Israeli sites that they were able to com-
   promise, many times defacing them with messages such as, "Free
   Palestine" or "Free Kashmir."9 FloodNet software was a major tool used
   by the Israelis. The cyber protesters simply visited a site and
   FloodNet would repeatedly send requests to the targeted server. This
   type of virtual sit-in is a popular form of a DoS attack. Many of these
   attacks were successful as servers were bombarded and went down
   repeatedly. Targets included ethnic specific organizational web sites
   and those of financial institutions to disrupt the infra- 5 "Chinese
   Hackers Concede Defeat in U.S. Hacker War, Call Cease-fire," Agence
   France Presse, 10 May 2001. 6 This highlights the fact that although
   web defacements usually cause minimal damage, they indicate a very
   serious breach in security. A web defacement is, by definition, the
   manipulation of a web server's data by gaining unauthorized access to
   that server. It must be determined if the hacker installed a back door,
   introduced malicious code, or affected the server in any other way. A
   seemingly low-level hack could result in future problems if systems
   administrators do not take positive actions to stop future intrusions
   and re- store the server to its previous condition. 7 Larisa Paul,
   "When Cyber Hacktivism Meets Cyberterrorism," Sans Institute, 19
   February 2001 [online]; available from
   http://www.sans.org/infosecFAQ/hackers/terrorism.htm; Internet. 8
   "Hacktivists Take Conflict to Internet," Associated Press, 4 November
   2000. 9 "Hacktivists Take Conflict to Internet," Associated Press, 4
   November 2000.  4  CYBER PROTESTS: THE THREAT TO THE U.S. INFORMATION
   INFRASTRUCTURE structure. E-commerce sites crashed and there was an
   economic impact reflected in the Israeli markets. It was, however, the
   root access attempts that were most dangerous for the defenders.
   Hackers who can gain root access to sites give them unlimited freedom
   to do whatever they wish. This is the highest level of penetration
   possible although no suc- cessful root access penetrations were
   reported. These events attracted a wide variety of hackers eager to
   join the fight. Both sides were well-organized and used reconnaissance
   and intelligence gathering techniques to maximize their effectiveness.
   Even outside hacking groups, such as G-Force Pakistan, joined forces
   with the Palestinians to lend a helping hand. This is increasingly
   common. Some outside groups join an effort because they have similar
   political or ethnic motiva- tions, however, this is not always the
   case. Some groups participate in hacks simply for the desire to hack or
   the publicity, not out of a sense of loyalty. Overall it can be
   expected that Israeli and Palestinian hackers will be active whenever a
   stumbling block appears in the road to possible peace between the
   groups. On the other hand, increased hacking might also occur when the
   Israelis and Palestinians are close to a peace agreement. System
   administrators must remain vigilant and focused on providing effective
   network security. Indian and Pakistani Hackers Another example is India
   and Pakistan engaging in a cyber protest caused by na- tional and
   ethnic differences. After a cease-fire in the Kashmir Valley hackers
   took it upon themselves to continue the hostilities. In 2000,
   pro-Pakistani hackers defaced more than 500 Indian web sites.
   Conversely, only one known Pakistani site was hacked by the Indians.
   This illustrates a large difference in technical, hacking abilities or
   the willingness to use the skills to strike at an adversary. In this
   event the apparent level of sophistication on both sides is relatively
   low. Web site defacements are the leading form of this protest. The
   group G-Force Pakistan was the most active group claiming involvement
   in the events.10 Japanese Incidents Recently, Japan has been targeted
   twice in online protests. During the first week of April 2001,
   pro-Korean hackers attacked Japanese organizations responsible for the
   approval of a new history textbook. The textbook glossed over
   atrocities committed by Japan during World War II and the occupation of
   China and South Korea. The perceived reluctance of Japan to accept
   responsibility for its actions triggered these events. The main
   participants in this incident were Korean university students, who used
   e-mail bombs in a DoS attack. The students crashed several web sites,
   including Japan's Educa- 10 Kaajal Wallia, "Indians, Pakistanis Play
   Patriotic Games on Net," The Times of India, 06 January 2001.  5  CYBER
   PROTESTS: THE THREAT TO THE U.S. INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE tion
   Ministry, Liberal Democratic Party and the publishing company
   responsible for the textbook.11 These attacks were neither long lasting
   nor were they largely organized. In early August 2001, pro-Chinese
   hackers targeted Japanese web sites after Ja- pan's Prime Minister
   visited a controversial war memorial, the Yasukuni Shrine. In a brief
   period of time, hackers defaced several web sites belonging mainly to
   Japanese companies and research institutes.12 This indicates the
   continuing willingness of pro- Chinese hackers to use cyberspace and
   hacking tools as a platform for protests and cyber civil disobedience,
   as well as for displaying a strong sense of patriotic nationalism.
   Conclusions While the cyber damage thus far has been minimal, the
   infrastructure will cer- tainly be a target of cyber protestors and
   hacktivists in the future, with the potential goal being intentional
   destruction rather than public embarrassment or purely political state-
   ments. Pro-active network defense and security management are
   imperative to the pre- vention of more serious damage to infrastructure
   assets. International cooperation and privatepublic cooperation within
   the United States is necessary to ensure the ongoing function of the
   critical infrastructure. 11 Stuart McMillan, "Cyber Attackers Remind
   Japan of its Infamous Past," The National Business Review, 2001. 04
   April 2001 [online]; available from
   http://www.infowar.com/hacker/01/hack_040501a_j.shtml; Internet. 12
   "Chinese Hackers Attack Japanese Web sites over Shrine Visit," Agence
   France Presse, 14 August 2001.  6
