http://www.sc.doe.gov/feature_articles_2001/may/program_summaries/pb1.PDF

   Office of Science Nuclear Physics
   http://www.sc.doe.gov/production/henp/henp.html The Nuclear Physics
   program advances our knowledge of the properties and interactions of
   atomic nuclei and nuclear matter in terms of fundamental particles and
   forces. The U.S. historically has played a world leadership role in
   fundamental nuclear physics research. The guidance provided in the Long
   Range Plans of the DOE/National Science Foundation-chartered Nuclear
   Science Advisory Committee (NSAC) over the last two decades has been
   instrumental for maintaining this role. A new long range planning
   process will be complete in October 2001. DOE will use the scientific
   opportunities identified and priorities recommended in the plan to
   develop a forefront scientific program that will maintain the nation's
   leadership role. The Opportunity: A unique new nuclear physics research
   facility at Brookhaven National Laboratory was commissioned last fall.
   RHIC, the Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider will allow the study of
   extremely hot, dense nuclear matter. It collides beams of gold nuclei
   at energies sufficient to form brief microcosms of the hot, dense soup
   of elementary particles (quarks and gluons) that previously existed
   only for the first microseconds after the Big Bang origin of our
   universe. Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility (TJNAF), the
   premier facility for studying the quark structure of the nucleon, has
   Thousands of particles been in operation for almost five years. This
   facility provides an emerge from a collision intense polarized electron
   beam simultaneously to three of gold nuclei at RHIC. experimental
   halls. The experimental results are changing our understanding of how
   quarks bind together to form the fundamental building blocks of our
   world. The first generation of solar neutrino experiments detected
   fewer high-energy neutrinos than expected from our present knowledge of
   nuclear processes in the sun, and spawned the idea that neutrinos can
   change from one type to another. The currently operating Sudbury
   Neutrino Observatory (SNO) experiment is designed to measure for the
   first time the appearance of a type of neutrino that is not produced in
   the sun, providing revolutionary insight into the nature of neutrinos
   and the core of the sun. The Sudbury Neutrino Observatory in its
   underground cavern April 2001 Continued Nuclear Physics
   http://www.sc.doe.gov/production/henp/henp.html The first generation of
   solar neutrino experiments detected fewer high-energy neutrinos than
   expected from our present knowledge of nuclear processes in the sun,
   and spawned the idea that neutrinos can change from one type to
   another. The currently operating Sudbury Neutrino Observatory (SNO)
   experiment is designed to measure for the first time the appearance of
   a type of neutrino that is not produced in the sun, providing
   revolutionary insight into the nature of neutrinos and the core of the
   sun. An exploding nebula The Challenge: RHIC and its associated
   detectors have performed well, even though they still need to reach
   planned operating levels. The experimenters will be challenged to
   establish compelling evidence that quark-gluon plasma has indeed been
   formed by collisions of nuclei. Results from many different indications
   of quark gluon plasma formation must be compared and fine-tuned amongst
   the four major RHIC detectors. A compelling case for the outstanding
   scientific opportunity of RIA must be made to justify construction of
   this new facility for nuclear science. Weaving together dozens of
   experiments in order to achieve a coherent picture of the internal
   structure and dynamics of protons and neutrons is a challenge for
   scientists at TJNAF. More than 1200 experimenters from 24 different
   countries come to TJNAF to perform these experiments. TJNAF seen from
   the air FY 2002 Investment Plan: In FY 2002, the Office of Science will
   focus its efforts on keeping its national facilities operational and
   available to U.S. scientists. R&D activities for RIA will continue. The
   Benefits: The Nuclear Physics program will make substantial progress
   toward answering three fundamental questions: what was the nature of
   the infant universe at the tender age of one microsecond, how is the
   world today constructed at its innermost level-the level of quarks
   inside atomic nuclei-and does the neutrino have mass? The unique DOE
   facilities and research program will help the United States maintain
   its world leadership role in nuclear physics. This fundamental physical
   science is a cornerstone of our strong technical economy, transferring
   to industry the knowledge and technology acquired in nuclear physics
   research and educating the nation's pool of technically trained talent.
   http://www.sc.doe.gov/henp/np/index.html April 2001
