http://www.consumer.gov/idtheft/index.html

   When Bad Things Happen to Your Good Name
   How to Order Copies ID Theft

   Robo de Identidad: Also malo puede pasarle a su buen nombre

                               Privacy Policy

                           print2.gif (6935 bytes)

                                    NEW!
                             ID Theft Affidavit

                             Declaración Jurada
                            de Robo de Identidad
                                [solo en PDF]

                                FTC Workshop
                              Victim Assistance

                                ID Theft Data
                                Clearinghouse
                                 FACT Sheet
   Welcome to the U.S. government's central website for information about
   identity theft.

   This site is maintained by the Federal Trade Commission. Please
   continue to visit this site often and share the information with your
   family, friends and colleagues. More information will be added to the
   site regularly, including government reports and Congressional
   testimony, law enforcement updates, and links to other sites with
   helpful information about identity theft.

   How can someone steal your identity? By co-opting your name, Social
   Security number, credit card number, or some other piece of your
   personal information for their own use. In short, identity theft occurs
   when someone appropriates your personal information without your
   knowledge to commit fraud or theft.

   Here are some ways that identity thieves work:

   bullet.gif (918 bytes) They open a new credit card account, using your
   name, date of birth, and Social Security number. When they use the
   credit card and don’t pay the bills, the delinquent account is reported
   on your credit report.
   bullet.gif (918 bytes) They call your credit card issuer and,
   pretending to be you, change the mailing address on your credit card
   account. Then, your imposter runs up charges on your account. Because
   your bills are being sent to the new address, you may not immediately
   realize there's a problem.
   bullet.gif (918 bytes) They establish cellular phone service in your
   name.
   bullet.gif (918 bytes) They open a bank account in your name and write
   bad checks on that account.

   CONSUMER ALERT!

   Internet Account Updates
   If you receive an e-mail request that appears to be from your Internet
   Service Provider (ISP) stating that your "account information needs to
   be updated" or that "the credit card you signed up with is invalid or
   expired and the information needs to be reentered to keep your account
   active," do not respond without checking with your ISP first. According
   to information received by the FTC, THIS MAY BE A SCAM.

   ID Theft: When Bad Things Happen To Your Good Name  [TEXT]  [PDF]

   Robo de Identidad: Also malo puede pasarle a su buen nombre   [TEXT]
   [PDF]

                            rule.gif (1061 bytes)

                             Revised 01/30/2002
