http://chesapeake.usgs.gov/plans.html

     Banner logo and link USGS science for a changing world / USGS
     Chesapeake Bay Activities




         Home I Programs


   Overview

   Land Use and Watershed Characteristics

   Land Use

   Watershed Characteristics


   Water Quality & Quantity

   Nutrients

   Sediments

   Contaminants

   Stream Flow & Ground Water

   Vital Habitat & Biological Resources
   Ecosystem History & Change
   Publications & News Releases
   Data & GIS Coverage
   Cool Links
   Programs and Projects
   white spacer for site Program and Projectsheader
   The USGS Chesapeake Science Program depends on the coordination of
   multiple USGS Programs that have a scientific interest in the Bay
   restoration. Over forty USGS scientists located in offices throughout
   the Bay watershed and at the CBP, are involved in scientific
   investigations and information dissemination.

   collage representing USGS programs

   .

   [w_spacer.gif]   white image spacer Where possible, the USGS is
   planning and executing integrated efforts among USGS National Programs
   to enhance interdisciplinary approaches to technical issues.

   Some of the participating USGS National Programs and their roles
   include:
     * Biology Program area missions related to fisheries and aquatic
       resources, contaminants, wildlife, invasive species, and ecosystems
       are met through investigations carried out at the Leetown and
       Patuxent Science Centers addressing submerged aquatic vegetation,
       wetlands, fisheries and water birds.
     * Global Climate Change Program mission is met through research on
       wetland and habitat loss due to recent sea-level rise. Visit the
       USGS Global Change Research Page for more information.
     * Coastal and Marine Geology Program mission is met through research
       on sediment sources and dynamics affecting water clarity and
       submerged aquatic vegetation. Visit the home page for the Coastal
       and Marine Geology Program
     * Cooperative Geologic Mapping Program mission is met through
       creation of maps of geologic and geomorphic characteristics of
       sediment transport and deposition history in watersheds and
       adjacent tidal. The National Cooperative Geologic Mapping Program
       site contains more information.
     * Earth Surface Dynamics Program mission is met through research on
       effects of land-cover change and climate variability on sediment
       deposition and subsequent effects on water clarity and SAV. For
       more detailed information visit the Earth Surface Dynamics site.
     * Geographic Research and Applications mission is met through
       research and application to document the land-cover
       characterizations, land-cover and land-use changes, and relate to
       water quality and habitat changes through process models.
     * Earth Science Information Management and Delivery program mission
       is met through information management, access, and retrieval of
       GIS- based data through the WWW. Visit the Data page for sources of
       data and spatial information.
     * Hydrology National Research Program mission is met through research
       of sediment sources, transport, and delivery in the selected
       watersheds and adjacent tidal systems and their relation to
       shallow-water habitats for SAV. Research on nutrient cycling in
       surface-water and ground-water systems. Research characterizing
       abundance and extent of SAV coverage in relation to sediment,
       seasonal water quality, and hydroclimatology. The National Research
       Program conducts basic and problem oriented hydrologic research.
     * Hydrology State-Federal Cooperative Program mission is met through
       enhanced surface-water monitoring and modeling efforts to document
       sediment and nutrient loads, trend analysis, and factors affecting
       loads and trends. Visit the Cooperative Water Program and the ACWI
       sites for more information.
     * National Water-Quality Assessment (NAWQA) Program mission is met
       through work under Delmarva/Potomac study to understand nutrient
       and contaminant relation to land use and processes affecting
       geochemical cycling. Visit the NAQWA site for the latest
       information.
     * Eastern Region Place-Based Studies goal of coordinating and
       integrating science of the USGS National Programs and to meeting
       customer needs in the Mid-Atlantic Focus area is carried out
       through investigations in Chesapeake Bay and its watershed. Visit
       the Place-based Studies Program site or factsheet for more
       information.

   We welcome comments and suggestions on this redesigned site.

   up arrow Back to the top

     [dividerline_z1.gif]

   Home | Overview | Land Use | Water Quality | Vital Habitat | Ecosystem
                | Publications | Data | Cool Links | Programs



   RELATED LINKS:  Ask USGS | Water Science for Schools | Mapping | Water
                     | Biology | Geology | USGS | DOI |




   U.S. Geological Survey • National Center, Reston, VA 20192, USA • URL:
                    http://chesapeake.usgs.gov/plans.html
            • For page maintenance contact: dmprevatte@usgs.gov
     • For more information on water and the USGS contact: ask@usgs.gov
     • Last modified: Monday, 28-Jan-2002 09:48:21 EST • USGS Privacy
                                  Statement
